five four three two one legit hello bill
hey man what's going on here you are
here yes with a book you got a book of
shit I gotta come prepared I mean yeah
I'm trying to write I'm trying to get
back into handwriting for people don't
know bill is the CEO and co-founder of
minds.com and we've been going back and
forth through email and you got hoax by
some dude who said he was Joey Diaz it
did happen he really believes like
Joey's been on my network I'm like hmm
he was imagining me messaging in Joey's
voice yeah basically cloning it like
there's weird people out there yeah well
that's not hard to do yeah you know yeah
watched enough Joey they still just
cloning his weeds cocksucker yeah yeah
yeah yeah every Monday morning or so
there's a there's a tweet about someone
needs to suck your dick that's they need
to suck your dick you need to let them
know that's a on the regular um what's
the notes man just some rambling from
this morning yeah yeah important so it's
actually the first thing that I ever in
in this notebook I've not been doing and
writing much at all in the last year's
probably mostly digital which is not
good because I actually majored in
English yeah you definitely lose your
ability to write words it's funny I
tried writing in for whatever reason I
write mostly in all caps you know
because I just mostly just write notes
but I tried writing with like lowercase
letters and then I tried writing in
cursive and my cursive is like it's
almost like I have to relearn it yeah I
was finding just like trailing off at
the end of certain words but I blend it
all together you what I blend it all
together with capital in lowercase
Oh why you do that I mean well just as a
normal person would I thought you're
just mixing them up randomly no no okay
so I did write my college thesis in all
lowercase
well i heiped we protesting yeah kind of
it was stupid
it's like a cool move right I'm not
gonna use any uppercase who cares man
there's weird like postmodern theory
about
capitalization and then what I was
talking about I got a little bit
indoctrinated at UVM really yeah yeah
they're like they this one class it was
called credit what is which one is you
what is UVM Vermont Vermont yeah Oh
Vermont it's like yeah super social
justice II right mm-hmm and and cave
with good intention yeah yeah nice
chrome up there too
mm-hmm nice folks but like this one
class was called critical theory and we
had to watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer
and a pie like Marxist theory to it to
show how like it's the rise up of the
lower class it's like you're forced to
write these papers in like a certain way
yeah yeah well they trying to prove
class division class division yeah in
Buffy the Vampire Slayer it's there
there's like books and books written
about Buffy the Vampire Slayer why it's
Marxism yeah come on
not kidding really yep what do they have
to say it's a mate I mean I'm sure
you're aware of James Lindsay and Peter
Bogosian and and what is it the Solon's
name yes Helen shit didn't meet her
unfortunately the grievin Studies hoaxes
that they submitted a bunch of fake
studies to these journals and not only
got reviewed but got lauded and praised
for their academic scholarship yeah I
think that stemming from this guy so
cool who first trolled a lot of the
postmodern journals and he was the
Fritton so it's called a SoCal hoax mm
to do that kind of trolling it's hard to
figure out who's who right it's hard to
figure out what's the hoax I got tricked
by that there's this one thing called
the post-modernism generator online it's
a computer that writes articles that
puts all of this fancy language together
and I someone sent it to me and I showed
it to my teacher and I was like oh this
is this is saying something pretty
interesting but it was it was horse
neighing yeah yeah what do you uh you
know what do you make of all this hope
sing you've been hoaxed twice then
you've just admitted in the first minute
of the show
I mean I think that you sort of have to
have the right to hoax to hoax
yeah to be wrong mm-hmm to mess up well
that's not messing up that's deceiving
people
true but you kind of have the right to
do that to you kind of the right to
troll yeah you know I'm the right to
impersonate but I have the right to get
trolled and be wrong well you don't have
the right to impersonate like you can't
have a verified account pretend you're
Joey Diaz oh no of course not but
harmless
trolling like that guy did to you isn't
that kind of like part of freedom yeah
yeah yeah like taking down disinfo from
social networks because it's wrong that
doesn't make sense
it it also depends doesn't make sense I
mean like if someone is purposely okay
let's say that you find some Chinese bot
that's purposely disseminating incorrect
and negative information about maybe a
potential presidential candidate let's
pick one
tulsi gabbard there they're
disseminating fake news about her and
you know for sure that it's fake you
know for sure who this I don't know how
you know but you know for sure who the
source of it is you don't think that
should be taken down I think that if
it's illegal it should be taken down if
it's illegal yeah mmm okay what it was
just lies then that could be illegal I'm
not a lawyer well I I'm trying to
position the network or just like
advocate for other networks to take more
of a neutral stance there's this cool
thing called the Manila principles which
the Electronic Frontier Foundation wrote
with a bunch of other Internet freedom
groups which is talking about how
digital intermediaries should shouldn't
be making these subjective decisions
about what's getting taken down and
should require a court order now with a
DNS provider or you know something less
content focus playing DNS - people don't
know we don't like I don't know my name
so yeah so we'll explain what that is
it's like where you buy domain and you
know but for Soulja know we're hosting
tons of content so it's harder for us
because we see illegal content in it we
should proactively take some of it down
if we
it's illegal right but at the same time
you know it's just slippery
well I follow quite a few people who
have I want to say they have hoax
accounts but they have parody accounts
and they and you know a lot of people
read into it wrong and think they're
being honest and argue with them like
there's this progressive dad guy on
Instagram you follow him no exactly
shocking he's hilarious when I follow to
that 30 foot like I followed quite a few
of them there was a guy who's the wrong
skin guy who was saying he was born in
the wrong color skin that he's
transracial and he would make these
ridiculous arguments about it and el
wick what was his name he apparently is
a comic just thinking that this sort of
star a couple I don't know the moment
they had to do it but let's say four
years ago a lot of those troll accounts
had to sort of say were not this person
for instance the one main one I follow
is now it's known as not Bill Walton he
tweets funny sports jokes all night long
after like what's on TV
mm-hmm as though he's Bill Walton like
in Bill Walton Oh like at some point he
had to put in the name like this is not
Bill Walton but still has quite a few
followers and he's still digging he
still gets the jokes out but that's for
me yeah
well what's your stance on people who
make accounts of your stuff put it out
there well I have a lot of them you know
there's a ton of them some of them
actually do good stuff like they make
little clips and they put those clips
online and it's actually it's good it's
good for people enjoy the show they get
a little one-minute snippet of things
and then some of them just will pretend
to be me and contact people and try to
book them on the show which is really
weird yeah I've had that but you know I
mean who is that is that a 16 year old
kid in Indiana I mean who is that it's a
it's odd it's but it's overall like get
past my own personal feelings because
because it's about me it's interesting
this is the you know this this strange
new ground that we're covering you know
I mean we've been discussing this ad
nauseam on the podcast lately that
essentially we've been dealing with 20
years of this and in those 20 years it's
changed radically I mean what it is it's
become something completely different
it's become something that changes
public opinion on things overnight it's
become something where you can
distribute information from you know
person to person about some you know a
huge international news event you could
get all of your information from Twitter
whether it's what happened in Venezuela
or what you know anywhere there's
something in the world you your people
are turning to social media almost
before their turn anywhere you're
looking you know I when I hear about
something almost always before I even
google it I almost always go to Twitter
and check Twitter and you know and see
what's going on and she touch that go it
DuckDuckGo have you heard of that one no
what's up it's like a privacy focused
search engine it's like pretty much the
only privacy alternative to Google it's
like this idea that we say I'll just
google it
right why do we I mean our whole process
has been to like purge proprietary
surveillance tools from our company and
I've been trying to do it myself like
getting on Facebook getting off Twitter
getting off Instagram it's just like
they're so abusive to everybody and it's
like there's brilliant people work there
I mean Instagram is such a well designed
out yeah I mean beautiful but so what do
you think is abusive about it
particularly there's start with Twitter
they're all the same
they're all the same yeah do you think
they're all the same because they're all
gigantic businesses yeah and they're all
the same because none of them share
their source code and they all spy on
everybody and they don't show you what
is happening behind the scenes they
don't show you what the code is doing so
like in that in that note I wrote to you
the other day it's like it's I compared
to like food transparency you know 50
years ago nobody thought about that and
then 20 years ago everyone's like I
don't want to know what's in my food why
but why wouldn't you want to know what's
in your apps yeah I mean it's super
sketchy what they're doing but how so
look what's super secure you don't know
but we know that they're spying on
everyone in tracking you everywhere you
go they're targeting things at you based
on physical location browser history
even when you're not on those web sites
some of their following around where
you're going in the internet right and
so some people accept that for this free
search engine with free email and things
along those lines they set accept the
fact that a certain percentage of what
they're doing is not going to be private
or at least their searches are not going
to be probably like save you search are
you thinking about buying it cheap and
you search jeeps you look at you know
2019 Jeep and then all the sudden all
your Google ads are about jeeps
right they're like we know we know
you're thinking about Jeep bill and I
don't think that that makes people want
to spend more time on Google and
Facebook what do you think it does do
you think it freaks them out I think
that we're just numb to it and so we
accept it yeah I think it's more than
yeah and so there's all different layers
of like what we use with your browsers
your apps your operating system your
food your you know government your
energy like all of this technology has
code right that's associated with it so
and when you open up your computer when
you sign into a browser when you open up
an app you are empowering that app
that's how the apps of the world become
huge monstrous corporations this because
we all use them every day right so if
you switch from you know oh at Mac OS to
like gnu/linux or like Debian Ubuntu if
you use brave or Firefox if you you know
DuckDuckGo is actually proprietary which
is annoying but they are very privacy
focused and then there's apps there's
mines there's all sorts there's other
open-source decentralized social
networks out there that we can
potentially Fedder a twith there's
really cool new interesting protocols
like that and ipfs that are like more
torrent style back-end so there's
actually no servers in a giant warehouse
like Facebook and Google it's more it's
fully peer-to-peer hmm and we're trying
to balance it because it's not like
decentralization equals good and
centralization equals bad but like you
know in order to get a sweet app like
Instagram style you need servers to like
process video and so the tech is still
sort of immature in the fully
peer-to-peer like you know Bitcoin style
internet but we're definitely getting
there and I just think it's important
for people to use things that are
transparent to them and respecting our
freedom yeah I think one of the problems
with these giant companies is that once
they become big you kind of use them as
a default and it's very difficult to get
people to communicate with you off of
them you know it's it's so hard to say
hey man I'm launching this new social
media app I would imagine you could
speak to this I'm launching this new
social media app and I want you to join
it people like but I'm already on
fucking Facebook
I'm already on Google I'm Ernie on
Instagram I don't want to do that man
it's too much texture and we make it a
million times harder for ourselves
because we're not scooping into people's
contacts and you know taking all their
information or not we're minds okay so
like when you give your address book to
an app who does that every most apps you
gotta be an asshole you know no but when
you say oh I want to find my friends who
are on this app and you share your
contacts you know supposed to do that
you're not supposed to do that yeah but
most people do and you know your friends
didn't give you permission to give
Facebook their phone you do that I
probably used to like seven eight years
ago and everybody don't do it anymore
I always say the same thing when it pops
up get the fuck out of here that's
always what I say would you like to
share your your contest get the fuck out
of here no you can't have my contacts
you asshole I know what you're doing it
Facebook is a weird one man it's so it's
such a sneaky one you know Facebook and
you know like all this the congressional
hearings and the inner workings of it
all and they're the the fact that it
profits off of outrage so it wants
people to argue like the the AI the
computer learning specifically wants
people to have like contentious debates
about things because that keeps their
eyes focused on the website and if your
eyes are focused on Facebook you know
then those Facebook ads are very
valuable it's really fascinating that I
think the outrage is unavoidable
any network it's more you know are you
gonna are you gonna take down they're
taking down outrage Tom yeah sure so it
just seems so inconsistent and
subjective how they're applying I mean
even just yesterday I think some
journalists got yes from Facebook who
air the story yeah yeah let me I'm gonna
send this to you Jamie because it's a
really crazy one because they wanted her
to show who her funding sources were and
I didn't even know that there was an
area where you could show that so it's
almost like they're making this up as
they go along
yeah Kyle kolinsky sent me this today
I'm gonna send this to you right now
Jamie hang on one second hold on I'm
very quiet unfortunately this is an
audio show but his live air yes not dead
air hmm yeah okay buddy I just sent it
to you okay
Facebook's suspended in the now tweets
page at the behest of CNN and the US
government funded think tanks says we
had almost four million subscribers did
not violate Facebook rules were given no
warning and Facebook isn't responding to
us so yeah what is what was the what it
would actually started this off I mean
who knows they don't communicate with
anyone they've been banning legit
accounts for years they you cannot even
send two minds commlink through facebook
Messenger right now it's blocked what
yeah what if you post in the newsfeed it
says careful this could be an unsecured
website oh just I clicked on a link from
TMZ yesterday and got the same thing
from on twitter twitter said this might
be malicious there's spam there could be
from minds knows from TMZ link it was
clicking this like this story is on TMZ
here doesn't see the rest of the story
so they're trying to keep you from going
to TMZ yeah I don't know why is the
first time I've ever seen that huh it's
probably caught up in some algorithm and
I sent an actual written letter to
Facebook about it obviously don't cut
back and there's no Hilo written letter
you wrote it with our recipe no now that
I mean cool I sign it with ink but
really we gotta know cuz our lawyer said
you know that actually proves that you
sent them something with some sort of
diligence but there's there's just no
recourse it's they're lost so explain so
if someone is trying to say on Facebook
master hey you should go check out mines
com
it won't let you post that link no and
what is their excuse they don't tell you
now so is it because you're a competing
social media network I don't know I
don't want to get into point I don't
know you don't know I'm not gonna say
just know that it does yeah yeah you
don't know why it does but you know and
they're calling us unsecure and I'm
pretty sure that Facebook got hacked
you know they compromised everybody's
data like you want to talk about
unsecure there's no more unsecured site
that exists it is kind of funny right I
mean after those hearings and after all
the the Russia stuff yeah it's um it is
kind of funny calling somebody else
unsecured yeah they're insecure Mark
Zuckerberg is very insecure
he's also stupid rich he he seems like
he's too rich like he fucked up like
he's they're sipping water like a robot
trying to figure out what the fuck he's
doing with this life I think that
they're scared because they know they've
betrayed everybody and so it's hard to
get them to speak you know it's
interesting with with Dorsey here
because I you know him credit for
speaking but the fact is that he's not
answering the question
well he's bringing somebody else in to
answer the questions in the next
go-round
and so that should be very anything he
actually didn't know the answer to those
questions I think he probably doesn't
know all the specifics because he's a
CEO of not one but two different
corporations he's busy shit and also
were truth but true but I think that
when we look at the policy that exists
on these networks like he is in control
of the policy to large degree there's a
bore I don't know there's a
decision-making process but he has a
large voice okay I don't know how large
his voice is I assume that's probably
true but one of the things we did detail
on the
podcast with Tim Poole was how he wasn't
the CEO for quite a long time fired and
then rehired it yeah yeah so obviously
there's some contention there's some
issues and you know there's a lot of
money involved in these things and I
think that plays a giant part and how
they decide to make decisions and but do
you think that an advertiser in reality
doesn't like say you're an advertiser
and you want to advertise your computer
ok and there's a video on YouTube that
is about something controversial does it
actually make sense for that advertiser
to not show their product on that
controversial video don't they want to
sell computers well it depends I mean if
the controversial videos are about how
Jews are evil and you have this video
about Jews being evil and then you know
you're like by Razer computers come on
that's right but do you think that
people actually I can understand not
wanting to support certain types of
content and maybe advertisers feel like
they're supporting that content by
advertising next to it but I also don't
think that people when they're watching
a controversial video on the Internet
say oh my gosh you know this advertiser
is completely out of line for being next
to this controversial thing III don't
think that's a healthy direction to move
okay that's one way to look at it
another way to look at it is if you are
a giant company that sells things let's
say your Toyota and you're selling
Tundras you don't want your Tundras to
be associated in any way with something
that you might think is negative it's
their prerogative if they're paying for
advertising they can kind of decide this
is one of the things that's leading
YouTube in specific and I've had but a
ton of conversations about this there
it's leading them specifically to try to
de monetize things that could be
considered distasteful or insensitive or
controversial and it's very frustrating
to content creators when you talk to
them they're essentially saying that
they need to do better and that their
tools are very blunt that they don't
really have the correct computer
learning tools to figure out what is
offensive and why and
there's a human review system which is
very weird and we've run into that many
times where like we'll have like a
podcast will they say Tom Papa who's an
uncontroversial fantastic stand-up
comedian and it's like demonetised and
then we're like why what happened and
then we go what the fuck can we talk
about we didn't talk about anything
crazy and it's really damaging for
brands when it gets to Montez right away
because it's that initial time period
that generates the most revenue yeah so
when you have to go back and do it I
mean so I agree with that but so we
built a tool that's like a peer-to-peer
advertising tool so it's not there's two
options you can say you earn crypto for
your contributions and then which
Kryptos do you support we have an
ethereal based token but we're gonna
support all of them so what is it a
theory on based token so it's an ER c20
token what does that mean it means that
we basically reward people for all of
their activities okay so let's say if
Jamie's posted on mines and people love
his posts he gets rewarded in some yeah
how much how much again well
Tobar one token will give you a thousand
impressions
oh so you it were not focused on like oh
you're gonna make money from this wait
that's not what we're saying
one token will give you a thousand
impressions or you get a thousand
impressions from you get a token from
1,000 impressions one when you use a
token to advertise on mines oh you get a
thousand impressions when you boost your
posts with it so wait a minute if you
use the crypto you use a token you
guarantee views yeah that's weird isn't
it why well you're guaranteeing people
see something well we when you boost it
it gets fed to people's newsfeed
chronologically right I say so there's
just a backlog so sort of like when
Instagram has those sponsored posts
except we're not spying on people to
when we send them Instagram spies on
people - yeah I don't know man I'm
stupid help me out it's yes they do and
the thing is we just don't know
so this is where free and open source
software is just essential like the big
networks there's no excuse for them not
to be sharing their
software right it's like when you're a
public forum on that scale the community
just has a right to know what the
algorithms are doing so you think that
they're not sharing their software
because their software is encoded and
designed to spy on you and extract
information and sell that information
partially like when Jamie gives up your
contacts when he signs up for an app he
says yes you can get access to all my
contacts there's a lot of reason and
they don't want people to compete with
them like anyone could actually take all
of our code and make their own social
network and compete with us they could
set up on their own servers and we
encourage that that's what like the feta
verse is called that's what Elon Musk
does with Tesla all of his electric
patents for electric cars I think that
he opened up the patents I don't think
if he he opened sourced all the the code
of the car but he's definitely in moving
in the right direction of like he wants
to build the market yes and he also
wants to save the world I mean he
legitimately has this any else house
shitload of money he's got enough
blowing yeah that's I think that's a big
factor with those guys but don't don't
you think that it's almost like it's
gonna help whatever network does that oh
he's more transparent stop spying on
people is more community run and evolved
wouldn't that be the network that you
would think humanity would want to stick
with in the long term like wouldn't that
be a good move of that yes and no for
the average person
what are they losing when they get on
Facebook or Google what do they what's
bad what happened other legs are going
down everybody's legs are going down and
that makes everyone very sad what do you
mean
well the algorithms you're only reaching
5% of your own followers organically on
Facebook now and I'm they're starting to
change the chronological feed on
Instagram too and they know that this
causes depression and they're still
doing it because they know that the you
know they're they think they're better
at showing you what you want to see than
you are and they want to make money from
it what do you mean by they know that
this causes depression
they've done studies about mental health
in relation to actually Facebook
exposed like five years ago for doing a
secret study on like a few million users
where they were injecting both positive
and negative content into the newsfeed
and they proved that they could affect
people's moods this was with Princeton
there's a huge backlash and they're like
oh sorry whoops
right but this isn't of injecting
negative or positive content this is
just moving these images or these posts
around so that less people see them
there's two different topics there the
basic newsfeed on facebook is now a
mysterious conglomeration of thousands
of variables which we don't know and but
additionally like a few years ago they
were exposed for having been
experimenting with people's brains
that's right I remember that now I
remember that now that that's right yeah
I remember thinking like wow that's kind
of creepy
there's depending on the people that are
on their site and they're not telling
these people they're experimenting on
yeah but do you I mean if they're trying
to make it better do you think that
they're really that's a factor that it
actually could I mean how does it cause
depression if they're just if your
images or your posts are not being seen
as by as many people have you talked to
kids posting on social media and their
reactions to how many likes they're
getting they get very very concerned
well that seems like more of a problem
with that
it is both it's not it is on both sides
being addicted to likes as some sort of
a you know it's a weird doping yeah
right it's not healthy and no we need to
learn to not care about that but I think
that the core purpose of a social
network is to subscribe to someone and
see their stuff yeah and when people
subscribe to you they see your stuff
right so when you spend years building
up a following on social media and say
you burn a hundred thousand powers or
something and then suddenly the network
says mmm nah no your friends can't see
that anymore
that's not cool and and even to like
Twitter's default newsfeed is no longer
chronological you have to click it to go
chronological and then it defaults back
to their weird algorithm thing so we're
saying look 100% organic chronological
raw forever as default and then if you
want to curate you know algorithms or
have recommended stuff come in as an
alternative fine but that is the core
purpose of social media is to connect
with people that follow you and the
other way what do you think the purpose
is like why do you think Facebook would
decide to have things not in
chronological order and only be seen by
5% of your followers like what would be
the benefit in that for them revenue
revenue how so how does that generate
revenue they just know that they can
keep you on the app better if you have
less likes know if your your stuff seen
by less people it doesn't make sense
that's a good point
it sort of works both ways I think that
they think they know the people that
you're gonna react to the most so as a
consumer when you're getting that
content you know the algorithms are
showing you what you typically like have
you noticed that I'm really not paying
much attention but I believe you so yeah
for creator it's hurting creators people
who post are getting hurt people who are
sitting there just scrolling they're the
ones who are really getting you know
addicted more so with the algorithms so
how are the people that are posting
getting hurt they're gonna hurt because
their stuff is being seen by less people
yeah because it's not chronological and
it's not organic because it's curated
huh
but aren't they doing it because they
think it's gonna be a better and an
experience it's more conducive to your
life that's what they say what do you
think they're doing it for then they're
doing it because they have studied
through looking at the data how to keep
people on the app more right and that
way is to give them I say if I Google or
if I look at muscle cars on Instagram
now if I go to my search it's all muscle
car stuff so that's what it is they say
oh he likes that so we're gonna we're
just gonna give him a lot of that and I
think that's okay as an alternate
of feed or to put that somewhere I just
think the core feed always needs to stay
pure hmm because otherwise you're just
down the slippery slope again and
understand it's just feeding there
they're injecting things into your head
that you didn't ask for right and
they're doing it because they want to
keep you around yeah that makes sense
um how many different companies are
subscribing to that is it seems like all
the big ones we're saying are curating
and moving things around and all the big
ones have an algorithm that's designed
to keep you onboard right mm-hmm
and that's okay to pursue I think
there's really cool things you can do
with AI and machine learning and
algorithms that is really beneficial but
it's just taking away people's reach
when they have worked years and years to
achieve it it's not okay do you think
that this is this marriage between
something that is this social media
network that's designed to allow people
to communicate with each other and then
commerce like this business like how do
we maximize this business how do we get
more profit out of this business how do
we get these people to engage more and
then they start monkeying with the code
and screwing with what you see and what
you don't say you think that's what's
happening yeah but in the short term
it's probably working but in the long
term they're betraying everybody's trust
it has to be more of a consent based
system mm-hmm so you know at least give
people well it should be opted out by
default and fine give me messages to opt
in so that you can show me certain
things but this whole force forcing
people into surveillances it just has to
stop it's it's super scary house it's
super scary to you it's just too much
power hmm yeah it's too much power for
something that supposed to be silly
right like what was Facebook supposed to
be supposed to be some silly thing that
you just can communicate with friends it
was but from the beginning all of these
none of these networks have ever really
been about the people of the networks
it's always been closed source since the
inception so but then you look at open
networks out there you have Wikipedia a
totally open source community Ryan
granted they have there
choose with moderation fine but it's a
top ten website in the world it's
totally open source Creative Commons
content incredible human achievement
Bitcoin open-source money WordPress even
is an open source CMS system that is
like powering 25% of the Internet so why
wouldn't that happen with social media
it should I mean this is where
everyone's hanging out so we should all
sort of collectively even own it we did
a an equity crowdfunding round so like
thousands members of our community
actually on the site hmm now how many
people are on mines with like a million
and a half registered like quarter
million active various we're small but
the weird thing is that even though
we're a fraction of the size especially
smaller creators who come get better
reach on mines than they do on Facebook
and Twitter because we have this reward
and incentive system sort of like
gamified where you earn reach and you
earn more of a voice for contributing so
like you could have a count on Twitter
for ten years and post thousands and
thousands of tweets and you never hit
that viral nerve and you just never
never really get much exposure so we're
trying to help people be heard and so
you'll find a small creator who on other
networks has no followers have thousands
and thousands of followers on mines
mm-hmm and what do you think you would
like to do with mines in the future that
you haven't been able to do yet
engineer the control out of ourselves so
that we aren't even in a position to
really you know take people's stuff down
or what if someone posts your house and
your information where your kids go to
school I think that on the central
servers obviously yes we're always going
to moderate and if it's legal it can
stay if it's not illegal it can't but a
decentralized social network is
definitely where we have to go because
and yeah okay it's it's scary and you
know you've talked about this like
things are getting more transparent our
lives is sort of like
the inevitable evolution of technology I
mean how many hours a day do you stream
a couple you know 25 years ago would you
have thought you'd be sharing you know
20% of your life live streaming to you
know millions of people like your our
lives are becoming more transparent just
inevitably it's just pulling us mm-hmm
yeah I agree
so you know Bitcoin crypto dat torrent
stipe torrent type architecture that is
just where we're going because it's more
resilient it's less censorship prone
there's just benefits of it I think that
we can balance it to like maybe when you
post you have a decision do you want to
be able to delete this at any point
all right fine then you can post the
central server do you want this to get
Unleashed yeah it's scary because you
know there's scary stuff on the internet
it's already like that but you know
getting into censorship more does
censorship even solve the problem or
does it make it worse
what problem the problem of crazy
content illegal content how could it
make it worse well I mean it seems like
it can often amplify radicalization the
definitely can right yeah yeah and it
definitely when you censor people it
just makes them aware that there's a
plot against them too right it's like a
lot of conservatives on Twitter find
that some of the UH Sam Harris actually
just sent me an article that was
detailing the bias against conservatives
on Twitter that they've actually done
you know like some real studying it and
it's pretty demonstratable demonstrable
it affects both the left and the right
well
yeah the way I'm saying it wrong but
it's it affects the left than the right
for sure yeah that's what Kyle was
saying I watched that video that he did
and you know it's anti-establishment
that seems to be getting targeted mm-hm
and so you know Abby's been censored on
face now be more learn yeah and yeah
this person today that I mean most of
the stuff coming out of RT is
progressive which is weird and who knows
what kind of games are getting played
behind the scenes with the rush I mean
who knows but
point is they have a right to be there
and I mean look at and this is not
YouTube's fault but remember the YouTube
shooter mm-hmm I mean she thought she
was getting censored on YouTube and she
went and brought a gun to the YouTube
headquarters like people get pissed when
they get censored it affects you right
but in her case you're talking about a
crazy person and what really people at
ya know she uh she wasn't well she was
getting sensor just like everybody else
is getting soft censored on these
networks well she just thought this
wasn't she didn't wasn't getting
promoted the way she wanted to I don't
think anybody was actively doing
anything I'm not saying her stuff was
time saying that the soft censorship of
the algorithms people getting
demonetised this has an impact on
psychology hmm okay I see what you're
saying so it's I'm not saying they were
deliberately targeting her and you so
horrible what happened but yeah hmm so
what you're saying is that these
algorithms that they use in order to
maximize their revenue and give people
things that they like but actually takes
away from things being posted
chronologically keep certain things from
being seen by as many people so it keeps
them from being as viral so it keeps the
whole thing from being organic yeah yeah
makes sense yeah it's it gets to that
point where we're realizing that all of
these things all these social media
things are really recent we've only had
them for a few years and we don't
necessarily know what the rules should
or shouldn't be so it's good I mean it's
one of the reasons why I want to have
yann I wanted to find out where these
upstarts were these new people are
they're coming into the game like minds
like where you're coming into the game
from and what what is your position on
what's wrong with the current state of
affairs yeah and look there is messed up
stuff on social media like I'm not will
get pigeonholed and to be like oh you
support all of this this crazy stuff
first of all most of the users on minds
are like artists musicians filmmakers
activists journalists just trying to get
their content out there there's a very
tiny minority of like actually you know
crazy content but when you said crazy
content what do you mean you all right
yeah
yeah or I mean I'm not even gonna make
decisions on what is and isn't crazy
that's not that's not my place but the
it's been proven that censorship is not
the answer I mean look at the history of
prohibition yes it's it's you have
digital content it's substances it's
it's anything in from people want
information and they want the ability to
make the decision for themselves they
certainly do and then the argument on
the other side is when people are
distributing and I'm gonna use the big
air quotes hate speech that's when it
gets slippery to me because who's to
decide what's hate speech and what's not
hate speech we have seen people make
some ridiculous fucking
statements about all sorts of people
that are inaccurate and they do that in
order to categorize them and pigeonhole
them and and an easily definable and
dismissible characterization you know
you just decide hey that bill Ottman guy
that guys this oh he's a radical that
and he believes in this so fuck him and
they're like ok fuck him sweet morning
and then cancel culture comes in like
we're gonna cancel bill Ottman we're not
listening to him anymore
you know he lied to us about his source
or whatever the fuck you doing have you
heard of Darrell Davis no I have not
unless I forgot how Dave is your boy
he's my boy hee hee you'll you know I
haven't met him but I want him to be my
boy so he is a black man who befriended
hundreds of members that KKK and he got
them all to leave he got them to leave
the to 200 members laughter he was like
yeah I'm just gonna talk to you really
you but did you ever see the W kamau
Bell show when he visited with those
white supremacists not that specific one
no it was it's really good cuz he's such
a nice guy
he's so like easy to get along with that
they were like sort of they let the
guard down around him and you know you
get to see these people kind of confuse
that they like this guy mm-hmm you know
that's why I think initiating human
contact right via the social networks
like that's really important but to
devil's advocate it's one of the worst
ways for people to express themselves in
a way where you consider other human
beings experiences and feelings and the
way they're gonna receive what you're
saying because there's no social cues
you're not interacting with them you're
not looking at them in the eyes it's one
of the weirder forms of communication
between human beings and one that I
would argue we have not really
necessarily successfully navigated it
yet I agree I was actually saying that I
think we should use social media more to
get people to get together in real life
do you know who Megan Phelps is no she
was with the Westboro Baptist Church you
know the the famous one that protests
those soldiers funerals and you know and
anything gay and that they're like
ruthlessly viciously fundamental
Christians where you know they do a lot
of protesting at funerals and doing a
lot of stuff to try to get she was with
them for the longest time and then got
on Twitter and through communicating on
Twitter when you meet her you would
never believe it in a million years that
she was ever this fundamentalist and
that she was ever some mean person
sending hateful messages to people
because their son was gay or whatever it
was now she's completely cured of it she
has no contact with the church anymore
she's marriage as a kid she's completely
outside of it she does podcast now and
gives TED talks and speaks about
radicalization and about how she was
kind of indoctrinated and grew up in
this family and her her grandfather Fred
Phelps was this you know it's like it's
a fucking mean guy like a really mean
vision he's the God hates fags guy you
know they would have those signs that
they would hold up but at the soldiers
funerals I mean it's like really
inflammatory stuff but through Twitter
through her communicating with people on
Twitter specifically her now-husband
like he cured her like just with
rational discourse and communication and
she will change yeah they will change
and so that's why banning them I mean in
you I I saw in a recent podcast you've
been talking about Redemption
so but I'm curious what do you think
people what is how does that look like
well timba look in the case of like
Megan Phelps that's a real thing right
she really did change another example is
Christian Peake aleni
do you know who he is he was a white
supremacist KKK member the guy who he's
been on Sam Harris's podcast he's also
done some TED talks who now speaks out
against it and talks about how he's
indoctrinated and talks about how lost
he was and he was brought into this
ideology there are there's many people
like that all over the world
Majid Majidi was another perfect example
he was an Islamist I mean he was you
know trying to form a Caliphate was
literally thinking about radical Islamic
terrorism as being some sort of a
solution now he's the opposite now he's
trying to get people to leave and he's
trying to get people to be more
reasonable and secular see what happened
him he got punched in the street yeah
yeah some guy called him a fucking Paki
I guess and punched him in the head and
fucked his head up and he's got this
giant cut on his head from a ring and
his face is swollen up but apparently
they have the guy on video and you know
they think they're gonna be able to
arrest your are but I've had Majid on
the show he's a super nice guy
the hard thing is that all right yes we
see these transformations take place it
makes us feel warm inside and yes people
people can change but at the same time
what our people have should people have
to go apologize to Twitter oh I'm sorry
like can I come back right I mean that's
not like sometimes people are gonna
think completely differently than you
and you just have to deal with it right
and it that should be okay we we
shouldn't force people to come in to our
way of thinking in order to have
discourse no that's a good point that's
a very good point and like who is to
decide what this path to redemption is
and whether or not you've completed it
right who is decide like maybe you are
like a hyper radical lefty and maybe
Jamie's points of view and yours are
just never gonna line up so you like
fuck him he's banned for life which a
lot of people have been banned for life
and when you look at some of the in
frack
they've been banned for it they're like
boy I don't know about that one that
doesn't really make sense almost none of
the high-profile banning cases make much
sense no it's like a short-term solution
that's creating a long-term problem yeah
that's really what it is so I just think
that we have to talk about it more I
don't know I it's like why can't we just
get everyone to talk about it
yeah like at the same time I mean it's
like we're just wasting time here
well sort of but I also think we're
figuring it out as we go along with a
bunch of different competing ideologies
you know you have yours which like you
dude you look like a hacker on like
house of cards you look like a guy you
call in to break into the the mainframe
server or not that honestly I believe
you know I hang out on gitlab and check
out code but I I cannot cook I'm not
claiming to be a developer no no you're
not people are yeah it is incredibly
understand right yeah I get it
well that's like when if someone says to
me like you're an MMA fighter I'm like
I'm definitely not and they're on
another fucking level like there's a
different guy I know a little martial
arts but just settle the fuck down
right same kind of thing I think though
that you your ideology is going to be
your your point of view in perspective
is going to be very different than maybe
someone who's like a radical Marxist you
know it shouldn't maybe a lot of post on
the site too someone is like an extreme
socialist someone like a OC yeah you
know someone someone who thinks that we
should give money to people who are
unwilling to work someone who thinks
that we should try to engineer society
and tax the top X percent you know
seventy something percent of their
income there's a lot of those different
people and we have to figure out how to
to make it so that well we have to
figure out a way to make it so all the
ideas can compete in the marketplace of
ideas right all these different ideas
can compete we can find out which one is
better and we can find out which one is
better
okay you don't always find out which one
it's better the right you find out which
one is most I mean that's what happen
with Hitler right you don't really find
out what's better you find out what
what's got more Jews behind it it's just
it's too risky even being in the
position that I'm in you know I see
these edge cases like we say look if
it's legal it can be there but we still
see edge cases where we have to make
decision - what's like an edge case I
mean let's see I mean there is I don't
even want to go here but I will oh there
there is a type of animation oh oh
poor Nana man yeah yeah that is very
sketchy this super you know like child
porn animated child porn and we've taken
the stance that look it's it could fall
under obscenity laws so we don't we're
not cool but you know that is a huge
debate right that that that it has not
been decided by the Supreme Court if
animated you know
kids like they will do the weirdest
stuff and I just don't want to be
telling people what is and what is not
art right so like some of that Japanese
stuff with tentacles mm-hmm like some of
that stuff is just like what is
happening here like I got like octopuses
banging chicks in every hole and they're
choking on it and they've got one in
their ass and one of their vagina and
it's all like very very liquidy you know
there's a lot of splattering going on
you're like what the fuck is this and is
that okay because it's just art right I
mean if it was a person getting fucked
left right and center by an octopus he'd
be like yeah I think that we've crossed
some lines here that's bestiality but if
it's an image and if then then the image
is a girl with a schoolgirl costume on
she's dressed like a Catholic schoolgirl
with a little skirt and she's getting
banged by an octopus like what do you do
with that
right yeah yeah what are you what would
you do
it's a good question I'm glad I don't
have a social media site where after
make that decision
well the real concern would be is this
something that is actually illegal
that's the thing right and we we've
tried to look at the case law and we've
seen that this type of stuff has been
you know called obscenity yeah for and
so we're just not gonna risk it but I I
still you know you know
all right nipples nipples look right did
you know that
free the nipple started out before chan
loh everywhere it's a whole it's a whole
movement to be honest right time
magazine just did a really interesting
piece about a statue
they got banned from Facebook it was a
naked ancient statue doesn't Hipple like
I'm sorry that's not that's not
realistic that's not helping Society
taking down in a naked statue we were
talking about the other day during the
Superbowl that Adam Levine had his shirt
off and Brian Redman was like caped it
wasn't that like what Janet Jackson got
in trouble for yeah like yeah why does
why is it okay if Adam Levine shows his
nipples and Janet Jackson's nipples are
offensive because they're sexualized
because she's a woman mm-hmm
this is the weird fact men had to gain
the right to have their nipples shown in
public back in the day when's the day I
if you if you go on the the free the
nipples site there's this go on their
Instagram or something I think that's
maybe where I saw it back when I used
Instagram but you know society is
evolving we're gonna get there we're
gonna be able to handle it I think or
give people the controls so that they
can only see the types of things that
they want see that's ultimately what
it's about so like you should have like
a filter like do I want 18-plus do I
want pg-13
like what what kind of distinction do I
want
yeah and then when when things come up
like one of the things that Instagram
has been doing is like they say I follow
a lot of hunters and Instagram has
things where they say warning is a
sensitive content nature is metal gets
pop
done that a lot too because nature's
medals and Instagram site that's all
like these crazy images and videos of
animals eating other animals and
attacking their animals and sometimes
some of them they just decide this one's
too fucked up you know like just decide
right you know like just wonder from
where a lion is looking out of a
wildebeest asshole like from the inside
like this giant hole they ve eaten
through its stomach and it's looking out
its asshole now like yeah this one
you're gonna have to click on your own
you have to double click what do you got
Jamie basically it from I just looked up
Tarzan is the catalyst for why guys
wanted to wear their shirts off that
like in 1920's 1930's whom they had to
wear in pools they had to wear a top but
look this only covers one more best
they're probably tired or that rebellion
right they're pulling down the strap
look at it says here saucy lifeguards
flash rebellious nipples
[Applause]
that's hilarious
so as Tarzan 1937 New York State's male
shirtless ban that's when they
overturned at the incident attracted
press attention as Atlantic City the
other waterfronts similarly mandated
against man nips with that legal Domino
tipped along with the help of Hollywood
hunks and you were talking about how
their twitter has porn yes yo a lot
banned from google play for that twitter
has it they're up on google play it is
twitter has a substantial amount of porn
you know you follow like some of them
gals and they just want you see look
here's one in my pussy right there
take a look thank full-blown not
offensive well it's not offensive you
you follow them as you follow certain
porn stars i think we can't be their own
terms
oh really but they're just allowing it
because they know they want that traffic
oh is that what it is you know they want
that traffic wouldn't you know they what
they're trying to bro
yeah um it's a problem if you hand your
phone to your kid you know they
accidentally click on that link and
they're like mommy what's happening with
her but jonathan hate i hate her height
height height height he was talking
about an interesting thing where you
know should there be an age where we
really get into social media mm-hmm I
don't know I mean people should be free
but they were free to do what they
wanted to but you know the Internet is
the wilderness
well his book the coddling of the
American mind I'm in that right now I
just finished his other one and I'm
working on that one and a lot of it has
to do with social media and a lot of it
has to do with the impact that it has on
young people you know people are not
really designed for this and you might
be able to handle it if you're 32
year-old man or a 35 year old woman or
whatever you are but if you're a 15 year
old girl this might it might be
overwhelming I mean and the angst and
the anxiety and you know that's what I
was saying about the the depression you
know they see if they're not at a party
where their stuffs not getting liked and
that has an impact on them and
ultimately I think the networks need to
be helping educate people how to you
know whether it's disinfo educate people
how to research I did see that YouTube
is starting to do like you've been on
this for too long type thing really yeah
like get a life you fuck yeah they tell
you that I want to build stuff like that
that that's really important yeah
helping people get off yeah I haven't I
haven't seen that I haven't done enough
time on YouTube where they kicking me
off I have it's easy you know was I sent
Eddie Bravo this thing from The Guardian
about the upsurge in people that believe
in the Flat Earth and all of it because
of YouTube videos and that apparently
now YouTube is they want to censor those
they want to they they feel like Flat
Earth videos and I think another one
check this check this if I'm wrong about
this but I think they also want to lean
on those anti-vaccination videos I think
there's a concern with those I think
they're worried about a bunch of
different things along those lines you
know like they feel like there's
disinformation and outright lies it
being
bread how do we combat it we own this
platform what do we do they feel like
they have a responsibility I think there
is responsibility ok but what is a
responsibility if there's a debate I
think it's more to educate people how to
research mmm as opposed to saying this
is or is not true right because who's
deciding that well I believe the earth
is round
but I also believe it's such a stupid
conspiracy that you should have it you
should be allowed and it should be
something you should show your friends
like dude I need you to go look at this
this has 37,000 thumbs up and they
really believe that the fucking earth is
flat they really believe there's an ice
wall outside Antarctica they really
believe that the sky doesn't move that
it's that the you know that we're in
some sort of a I think it's like
projected images or something like
there's a bunch of like really really
wacky theories like I think those are
okay yeah of course yeah but I think
freedom of information sort of
transcends a lot of these little debates
so if there was more freedom of
information so we actually knew
everything the government knew yeah
about all of the different conspiracies
and black projects the black budget yeah
more information is going to get both
sides the ability to understand what is
happening doesn't sure the reality is
that we don't know what's happening and
there is lots of secret stuff the
problem with that though is then you're
dealing with foreign governments that
are way better at keeping secrets and we
are and if they have access to our
secrets like one of the things has been
kind of disturbing is seeing at the
actual influence of these Russian troll
farms have had on not just our political
process but sowing seeds of dissent
amongst people and and starting conflict
amongst people and how people are buying
into it you know like this podcast had
been talking about a lot with sam harris
and renee to Resta that's her name right
where they talked about how these
Russian troll farms set up a conflict by
having a Pro Muslim rally across the
street from a Pro Texas pride rally
and they just set it all up and had
their and then a skirmish broke out
because these people were across the
street from each other and that they do
this with they were having these
african-american groups that were saying
anyone but Hillary and they were gonna
like try really trying to get people to
vote for Jill Stein really trying to get
people to even consider Trump but did
anyone but Hillary and then you they
were also having like ones that were
against them they're trying to like make
debate they're trying to make anger and
I don't think you can stop that but it's
a fascinating thing isn't it that this
is like a concerted effort yeah yeah
like how do you feel about that when you
when you are you know you're in a
position where you have a fairly small
network but it's influential right and
then see watching Zuckerberg and the
Facebook shit on TV and they're talking
these Congress people and senators and
they're talking all these politicians
about what's going on and how to stop it
and what they're trying to do and and
you feel like oh god like this is kind
of a this is an arena that I'm getting
into what would you do I mean I think
more conversation needs to happen not
less yeah so I think you're right I just
I want more information from the
government from the corporation's from
the trolls from the trolls I mean yeah
you know I feel like I have a pretty
good ability to discern what is and is
not troll behavior I think help people
understand how how do we how to absorb
information like you know just banning
an account that is trying to has an
agenda is everyone has an agenda it's a
propaganda back and forth between
everybody I don't I mean just because
somebody posts a Jill Stein meme okay
what's your point like their intention
okay I'm not saying that you know regime
change behavior is positive or negative
I don't know how we we sort of switch
gears no we did but let me let me step
in here when you're saying a Jill Stein
meme there's absolutely nothing wrong
with you posting a Jill Stein mean like
say if you have a joke
about Jill Stein you wanted to post it
in a meme there's nothing wrong with
that what's weird for people is that
people are being hired to make these
memes and they these memes may not have
anything to do with their own personal
ideology they might just might just
decide hey I'm gonna collect this check
and I'm gonna and they make apparently
according to Renee and this podcast she
did with Sam Harris they make really
hilarious memes like some of them are
really funny I listen that podcast yeah
it was a great she said that she started
laughing yeah yeah yeah and she would
you know she would had to go through
thousands and thousands of them that's
weird the nice idea of a web of trust
which is interesting sort of like a
peer-to-peer it's not like a Chinese
soulful score but it's like if you the
people that you're connected with show a
certain account to be untrustworthy then
you know because you trust your little
network so there it's sort of like a
peer-to-peer score I we were looking at
different ideas I think that
transparency and understanding what's
going on with different accounts and if
it's the real person that's all
important stuff we don't we don't want
frauds we don't want just info but you
know we just have to really step back
and think about how we're doing it
rather than letting AI and algorithms
run the show right I see what you're
saying do you think that there's a I
don't say there's a market is there
demand for this like are a lot of people
responding in a positive way to the way
you guys are approaching the game yeah
for sure every time there's a big
scandal every time whether it's you know
data manipulation or you know our first
big growth spurt was during the Snowden
days when he released all the
information right people are really
upset with what's happening mm-hmm it's
just you know where are they supposed to
do like this is what they're using for
their communications not easy to just
achieve you know a multi billion person
network overnight so that everybody's
there and so we're stuck but again I
think that supplementing just installing
these alternative apps not just us it's
like the whole open
market I'm not even here trying to just
talk about what we're doing right it's
like if you don't have those apps on
your phone and you don't use those
browsers I'm sorry you just you're not
helping and people just want to vote
with their energy I think and vote with
their time so it's more of an education
thing people just don't know that this
matters and that this can help change
the whole internet simply by logging
into an app once in a while it's like
it's like organic food I mean we want to
put things into it we want to support
things that have integrity so when you
click something you are supporting that
thing when you're sitting on an app all
day you are feeding that app that's how
the apps get all the money that's where
they get all their funding that's that
that's where it's all based is in user
retention and energy and do you think
that most people are even aware of this
or you think they're just using it
because it's convenient the biggest
sharad going on right now most people
don't know that Facebook owns Instagram
they think instagrams like cool because
you know it's not Facebook right it's
one giant umbrella yeah yeah what is
what is the difference between the two
obviously with Instagram it's just
pictures mostly and then whatever the
post is blow the pictures but with
Facebook it's a lot more commentary and
long verbose statements on shit and then
people arguing in the comments about it
mm-hmm yeah they're all the the
Instagram founders left abandoned ship
the whatsapp founders abandon ship
the oculus of found her abandoned ship
all because of the privacy stuff real
they're like you took this good thing
well it was proprietary so I would argue
if it was ever actually a fully good
thing but at least it wasn't you know
completely corrupted by Facebook but all
of the founders of those companies left
because they hate what's going on what
the the whatsapp guy joined signal which
is a really cool open-source anti an
encrypted messaging app mm-hmm
so you know these people know so what
happened with whatsapp it's not the same
anymore whatsapp is owned by Facebook
I don't know this oh yeah yeah sorry
yeah come on bro get the jungle man's
like well you're deep into this man
that's why I want to talk to you yeah
it's and they're all buying up companies
and using these same sort of ideas yeah
now they're talking about integrating
the messages between whatsapp Instagram
and Facebook so it's all one system rule
yeah yeah
centralization it has happened hasn't
been turned on yet but I believe it's
happening like your DMS on Instagram
you're gonna have to download the
Facebook messenger so what is what are
the challenges for something like mine's
when you you're trying to take off like
there was a social media Instagram type
thing that was around a little while ago
remember I used it like once and I
posted about it and what was that called
but then Severo said what it was but
then a lot of people were saying is
bullshit and their proprietary well you
don't know it's closed source no idea
what's going on behind the scenes same
as the other one a lot of apps try to
say that their alternatives and that you
know they support X whines you know
privacy or free speech or whatnot but I
don't think it's any new paradigm if
they're not showing their source code so
that people can see the algorithms the
people who care you know obviously most
people aren't gonna go and inspect the
code right but just the principle that
the experts could because they will you
know there's all kinds of think tanks
and whatnot that would love to dive into
the source code to understand how these
companies were actually behaving so you
know waiving the privacy flag without
being open source or this is getting a
little bit into the weeds but a lot of
this comes down to licensing of content
or code so the license that we use for
our code is called the general public
license the a GPL v3 which means that
anyone can take our code and do whatever
they want with it they can sell it they
can do anything but if they make changes
they have to show them with everybody
else so it's sort of like the creative
commons share-alike license which is
essentially says the same thing
my video photo remix it do whatever you
want but you have to share the result
with everybody else
open-source basically means you can do
whatever you want with it you can take
it make it your own you know keep your
own little secret sauce if it makes you
feel good they get conflated because you
know free software sounds like free is
in free beer not free as in freedom so
you know licensing is really what this
all colas is into and and and but it's
been proven that you can make a lot of
money with free and open-source software
I mean look at WordPress it's a hugely
successful technology corporation the
multi-billion dollars people share the
code that's how it created a network
effect because they did that it's like
the Grateful Dead would let everybody
record their music and that was how it
spread so it's actually a good marketing
tactic and it also gives transparency so
people can see what the hell's going on
right now when you started this what
what was your objective and were you
thinking about it as a potential
large-scale source of revenue or were
you just thinking this is something that
I would like to do and do correctly
because I don't think anybody's doing it
this way open source
you know Pro censorship or Pro freedom
of speech anti censorship and you know
to just do the the bare minimum amount
of managing content I think everyone
should be able to make money I don't
think it should have to be mutually
exclusive like you do something for free
for everybody and you also can't make
money that's not a big misconception
we're trying to make give people the
tools to make money I mean we have like
a monthly recurring subscription system
sort of like a crypto patreon type tool
so you can subscribe to people we had
the ability for creators to accept Fiat
dollars but we took it out because it's
stripe and stripe is a closed source
system which we just didn't have
long-term faith in so
stripe was some sort of an extension to
your site we were using their API to
facilitate peer-to-peer payments this is
why real patreon most likely banned Carl
because are gone above Sargon who yet
because the payment processors went to
them or like look you know stripe has
very strict terms and we didn't want to
be you know talking to strip like we
don't want to be subject to overlords
right in our company decisions course so
you know you think that that's what
happened with Carl that is most likely
what happened so they stepped in and
said hey we don't want this guy to be a
part of the site yeah and I think that
striped probably stepped in with a lot
of explicit content and controversial
content I mean it's in their policy that
you can't facilitate payments dealing
with that type of content and now we're
seeing banks actually go go after people
well the thing about Carl toe was that
his content that was questionable wasn't
even related to patreon had nothing to
do with it it was on another person's
podcast it was from six months prior and
that other person's podcast was on
YouTube it had nothing to do with
patreon and they had specifically said
that they were not going to act on
content that was outside of their
network they were only gonna react to
things that were on patreon
right cuz you can make little blogs and
stuff on patron right they do have some
content yeah yeah so but that's not what
patreon said obviously the processor's
prior I don't want to who knows yeah I
don't want to act like a suspect I also
don't want it to seem like I have an
ideology that I'm trying to push right
right now like I'm very open to moving
in the direction that makes the most
sense for the community I'm not I'm not
attached to what I'm thinking mm-hmm
good oh I like that
I would wish more people would do that I
mean I try to do that I'm really getting
way better at it but that's something I
actively work on like these ideas that I
have I'm not fucking married to them
don't argue them look at them look at
them if someone says something different
go huh alright don't go no man very
ironic bro you know is that that natural
instinct to argue into
you know claim some sort of a personal
identity with your with your ideas
that's it's part of the problem that we
have yeah I think it's it's a main
conflict issue with social media is you
one of the things that I see a lot of
that look I used to do it way back in
the day if you go back to the early days
of Twitter I used to argue with people I
still argue with people on social media
then I realized some long time ago like
there is no good that comes out of that
I might correct someone if someone said
something that's incorrect but I'm not
gonna argue and I'm not gonna insult I
just I'm just not I didn't even work it
doesn't work it just makes people argue
back and insult you back and nothing
ever gets accomplished occasionally you
dunk on people and it's fun but Rhian
reality especially me I mean I kind of
dunk on people for a living so I'm just
gonna I'm not gonna engage and I don't
this is gonna sound corny as fuck I
don't hurt anybody's feelings I really
don't I don't want to be in some
argument where someone is looking at
their phone like fucking fuck you fuck
you I don't want that and I want that I
get that I know what it is I know what
it is but it's it's in this flat medium
okay this two-dimensional medium of
typing text and then sending text and
you type text and send text the conflict
that arises through that it's never
beneficial in my opinion I don't get
anything out of it so what you know if
I'm expressing something almost always I
try to express something about shit I
like like oh I love this new show all
this movie was great oh this is amazing
like check out this picture J you might
want to check this out it's it's tone
yeah honestly like I I'm saying with me
like I was much more trying to convince
people about what I thought was right
yes you know coming out of college you
think you're all high and mighty it
doesn't work
no uncle just you know are allergic to
I'm allergic to I cannot handle it like
it's not no one wants to talk like that
right it's one thing if you're having a
good time yeah and trying to just like
show someone up yeah I mean it just you
can have fun with it it's more comedic
but when you're actually taking yourself
seriously like
it's not gonna work no it's not gonna
work and it actually has the exact
opposite effect that's like the
expression what it would house a person
I got jealousy is like a poison that how
does it go jealousy is like a poison
that you take yourself because you don't
like what someone else is accomplishing
I forget the terrible job paraphrasing
that no my worst paraphrasing of all
time mumbled mouth motherfucker that I
am but uh but the idea is that it has
the exact opposite effect like you're
jealous about someone it actually makes
you feel bad instead of them feel bad it
also makes them not want to hang out
with you well you know they probably
want hang out with you anyway let's be
honest but but the the the you know what
you're doing by back and forth on so I
know and I know people who do engage in
it and sometimes they have these anxiety
moments where they don't sleep for days
because they're involved in these
Twitter feuds I mean I know people that
have done this where they've gotten
involved in Twitter feuds and I wake up
at 3 o'clock in the morning to check
their Twitter feed and like oh Christ
man like you got to go go go on a yoga
retreat or something like you can't do
this you can't live your life like this
I think there may be some value to the
debate happen it should be there it's a
see there debate it's like okay I'm not
gonna spend my time doing it that way
some people want to spend their time
doing it that way yeah and if there's
cool mechanisms for you know the most
voted content to be seen so the I mean
okay that's interesting to check out
sometimes to look at feedback but it's
it's it's not nearly as an effective way
of communicating your ideas as like
making something more personal right
it's you know more I mean even video is
is more effective than that because
people actually have a chance to look at
you or obviously in person yeah even
better yeah well in person is obviously
the best and I think my concern really
about the futures I'm holding back a
sneeze right now sorry trying to keep it
together I don't think I can it's one of
those borderline ones what he supposed
to do was stare
the light are you trying to risk this no
I'm trying to get okay we're good we're
out of the woods um I lost my train of
thought what was what we just had AI
something no jealousy quote you're
talking we want my past that Jamie I
know we've got a stake for days I was
looking for it I lost it I lost it in my
holding back of sneeze that oh that's
what I was worried about a I not a I
augmented reality that's what I'm really
worried about not artificial but
augmented and Mike my concern is that
what we're experiencing right now in
this flat form of two-dimensional text
is something that is very overwhelming
to a lot of people's time and you're
looking at some kids that are online
social media 810 hours a day just
staring at their phones I'm extremely
concerned and I have some jokes about it
in my act about the next wave because I
think that we are overwhelmed by this
incredibly attractive medium where we're
attracted to our phones were attracted
to this style of engaging and
information and receiving information
and passing it from and online arguments
and debates and and looking at pictures
and this constant stream which you know
just looking at your phone it's not that
thrilling it's just like hmm it's not
that thrilling it's like okay yeah but
it's still getting you all day long like
there's nothing really crazy happening
when my concern is if something really
crazy does start to happen when you
really can have experiences that are a
hyper normal like that are that are more
powerful than anything you can
experience in this regular carbon-based
physical touch and feel world and once
we start experiencing augmented reality
the integration between humans and
technology and then the ability to share
augmented reality like to shit like if
you were at work and you have these
fucking goggles on and your girlfriend
is at work on the other side of town and
you you guys both have like these
similar video pets that are with you and
dancing around and providing you with
fucking advertisements and giving you
things
there's there's next levels to this
stuff that I'm trying to like see the
future but I'm too fucking stupid and I
don't really know anything about
technology but I know that they're gonna
get deeper into our lives I know that
these technologies not they like the
government but these technologies
they're going to get deeper into your
life and that they got you by the balls
in the clit with a fucking phone and it
doesn't even do much take some pictures
look at some pictures look at some text
watch some videos that's all it does and
access to most human knowledge that's
true but how many people using our right
well as you know they are for sure they
definitely are there's a lot of googling
going on I'm sorry what is the other one
stucco duck duck going going on I'm
holding out for for another one and we
might start working on search more being
is like a goddamn ghost town isn't it I
bet if you go to Bing you got a blow
fucking dust off your keyboard as soon
as you open it up like no one's in there
who's in Bing Bing is just Microsoft's I
know who's using that old ladies I think
that YouTube is the number two search
engine on the web you too - yeah Wow
yeah that's what really makes so many
videos about so many weird topics and
just like a little shit hop up and you
get I don't think we can stop it but you
know cuz look it would be fun to you
know the with the frequency that you go
to like in arcade like I would go and do
some crazy AR VR stuff I mean it would
be fun it's like a rare entertainment
thing to do I just want to make sure
that like see even with the robots that
we're carrying around now do is is it
respecting my freedom is this thing on
my side it's not I don't think it is
right now because I'm using Android is
open source are you an Android guy of
course yeah but all those crypto guys
they're all Android you have it's it's
just more freedom now Google's version
of Android is just as bad as iOS so what
who's version of Android to use I am
yeah no I'm not no I'm not perfect I'm
on the Google and right now but there's
a version called
Kent which is which is a fully free
version of Android that I'm probably
because I just cracked my phone like a
day ago so I'm have to get a new one
when you use an put phone to use s8 oh
look at you yeah
kind of retro is it is this one called
the black phone which I'm looking into
which is up it's like a hyper encrypted
phone but I don't know if it's if it's
fully free isn't there a blockchain
based phone that they were coming out
with and a theory and base phone isn't
that I don't know I don't wasn't that
something Jaime sure I definitely got an
ounce but I don't know that it's still
in development
you can't run everything on a blockchain
no box chains are pretty slow
we we use it even to publish to the
etherion blockchain like when you send
each other payments on lines it costs
like you know there's a gas fee so the
way that the network is powered is that
you know the miners get paid with gas
with a little bit of ether so it costs
like a buck to do a post like there's
fully decentralized social networks
there's one called ppthe which you have
to pay for everything you do right on on
it and so this is why it's it's a cool
experiment but it's really not scalable
so you know it's gonna be a combination
of decentralized technology like not
just blockchain people like to you know
say the blockchain is gonna solve all
the problems and it's gonna solve a lot
of problems it's an incredible tool
but mmm yeah I'm uh what is this Jaime
is this it the finis one that's out now
yeah I just just what I'm still like a
month ago hmm that's pretty
siren OS which I'm not exact what is
that jazz good luck getting a fucking
app with that and some of those Android
apps they're they're sneaky right don't
they steal Bitcoin there was an Android
app that got in trouble for stealin
cryptocurrency
it was stealing it in the background why
you had your app open and it was on the
Google Play Store see if that's true I'm
gonna made something up I get sued I
don't think I did though I think and I
think it was stealing yeah you know pull
that up so we can see it I have an
Android phone as well I have a note 9 I
really like it it's giant huge screen
great battery life
beautiful so you use both yes Bitcoin
scam warning / fakie Android app that
steals cryptocurrency from your phone
yeah I use both um andrew is very good
now it's very good I was an early
adopter and it was like clunky and
shitty and then I would go to my iPhone
I was like oh my god this is so much
better what I phone is great with his
integration with like Apple TV
integration with a laptop but I also
have a Windows laptop that I use a lot I
really like I have a Lenovo ThinkPad
I refer as for writing the keyboards
better in fact I actually bought an
older MacBook just for the keyboard
because as a writer you you want tactile
feedback as you're writing it just helps
it makes it easier for you to recognize
where the keys are and Apple has decided
to go so far towards design and just for
aesthetic beauty that they've ruined the
tactile feedback - you remember that
though when the old you know smartphones
you could they still had the keyboard I
thought I would never leave that mmm
because tactile right ultimately left
that's true but that's a different
experience that's just gems I can do
that with my thumbs and I kind of know
where everything is and I'm not writing
a novel
you know when I'm writing material or
essays or something like that
I need I need a fucking keyboard you
don't think that the holographic screen
that's just here you don't think if it's
just like auto corrects everything you
do and you could just look maybe but
there's there's a I like the tactile -
yeah there's a feeling I like mechanical
keyboards in fact there's a feeling of
knowing did you test out that
FaceTime bug about FaceTime bug yeah
there was a FaceTime bug where what was
it you didn't see that I heard about it
but I didn't look into it at all yeah we
didn't test it out in play basically you
could call someone and hear them without
them picking up oh yeah without them
picking up them picking up yeah so the
thing is ringing on FaceTime and they
don't even have to pick up and then
you're on the other end talking shit
about them it's basically certainly hell
anybody fuck bill and fuck mines that
guy's full of shit soon as the big
companies come to him he's gonna stick
his ass in the air just like all of them
said the camera could be turned on too
makes sense I was like that when I'm
beaten off don't you
you should they Apple acts like it cares
about privacy which maybe it doesn't
turn certain over things the FBI I don't
know exactly what's but we don't know
what the Apple phones are doing right
Apple is all locked down close source
mm-hmm and additionally there was a
creepy speech that Tim Cook just just
gave creepy did you see it no let's
listen to it yeah let's listen to it
show community the ADL speech do you
have any spooky music you could play in
the background why he's doing this
speech we might get in trouble for that
so again it's good intentions like
people who want less hate speech we all
want less H Beach of course we want
people to get along better yeah right
but this idea that I don't want to give
away too much way but you know he's
acting as if they are going to be the
moral authority about the types of
content that can exist on the App Store
you know so I just don't know how that's
scalable yeah what does that mean like
let's say what hoping this is the right
one is it it says CEO Tim Cook banning
hate division is the right thing to do
12:3 2018 is that it December that's it
okay let's hear it
hello Tim fine please to the humanity
that makes us us we do that in many ways
one of the most important is how we
honor a teaching that can be found in
Judaism but is shared across all faiths
and traditions it's a lesson
that was carried forward by the late
Elie Wiesel may his memory be a blessing
it's a lesson put into practice by
America's Muslim community who raised
thousands for the victims of the tree of
life killings low-tom mode al Dom ray
akka
do not be indifferent to the bloodshed
of your fellow man do not be indifferent
this mandate moves us to speak up for
immigrants and for those who seek
opportunity in the United States we do
it not only because their individual
dignity creativity and ingenuity have
the power to make this country an even
better place but because our own
humanity commands us to welcome those
who need welcome it moves us to speak up
for the LGBTQ community for those whose
differences can make them a target for
violence and scorn we do so not only
because these unique and uncommon
perspectives can open our eyes to new
ways of thinking but because our own
dignity moves us to see the dignity and
others perhaps most importantly it
drives us not to be bystanders
bystanders as hate tries to make its
headquarters in the digital world an
apple we believe that technology needs
to have a clear point of view on this
challenge there is no time to get tied
up in knots that's why we only have one
message for those who seek to push hate
division and violence you have no place
on our platforms
you have no home here from the earliest
days of iTunes to Apple music today we
have always prohibited music with a
message of white supremacy hold on sir
[Applause]
what what do you think they're
signalling here are they signaling that
they're about to start censoring things
like whatever they are they already are
they okay I agree these shit you
probably shouldn't put white supremacy
music on but there's a lot of like
really violent stuff that you can get on
iTunes right I mean if you go back to
the old NWA albums there's some that's
available right I'm assuming yeah that
is for sure but yeah like straight out
of Compton that is some violent shit and
then how about the films that they have
how about the films you can get on the
iTunes Store there's a lot of very very
very violent films like extremely
violent there's a lot of films that like
is it that they're making the
distinction between something that's
fiction that although it may be
disturbing you understand that this is a
movie and this is something someone
wrote versus someone art versus yeah
versus someone with commentary their
commentaries hey and then here's the
other thing where he was saying hate and
division
they won't promote division but that's a
weird one yeah that means like what does
that mean people who disagree with you
what is division has good intentions you
can steal it yeah the problem with this
right that it's he's not allowing the
conversation to take place so this is in
direct conflict with the Daryl Davis's
with confronting these issues right so
but but I think wasn't when he's saying
you have no place on our platform they
probably feel like you can go somewhere
else
he's building a wall yeah I mean but
this is what I'm saying like everybody
kind of feels like you can go somewhere
that's what happens though and that's
how things get more radicalized and
everybody goes to AB so I don't know
yeah look the conversation
to take place people on the left he he's
acting like he's speaking for all LGBTQ
people he's not there's lots of people
on the left and LGBTQ people aren't
always on the left and while all of them
want that well not only that there's
division in LBGT and Q like there's a
there's a big issue right now with
martina navratilova that was going on
about her discussing the reality of
trans women competing against biological
women and that she opposes it and she
thinks is there some fundamental
advantages which is leading to a lot of
weightlifting world records being broken
by trans women and she's like this is
fucking preposterous including trans
women with penises now they're attacking
her for being transphobic so there's not
even a United United opinion in the
lbgtq community for sure and that's why
that megan murphy i think yes the i go
to this restaurant in Bridgeport
Connecticut called bloodroot which is
like sort of an old-school feminists
like vegetarian vegan spot in in
Bridgeport in Bridgeport really yeah
yeah yeah rich poor it's kind of no no
offense I know it's kind of a dumb wild
place yeah we would have gathering in
the vibe from you as a festival school I
helped organize I used to stand up in
Bridgeport this place called the Joker's
wild it was a comedy club so so the only
eat a guy with his shoe there yeah beat
a guy in the face with his shoe pulled
his shoe off and smiley nice I was 24 I
don't know what the fuck was going on so
anyway though that restaurant the you
know they get called what is it turf
turfs yeah trans exclusionary radical
feminist yeah and so again you know
they're the old school ones and they're
saying look you know we're not against
your your battle right yeah we're not
against trans rights avi who would be
trans oh yeah but they're just saying
that's not our thing so again there's
diversity and they're trying to clump
everyone together in the whole
intersectional world
and look people want to band together
the suppressed groups want to band
together they should yes but like it's
not that simple well there's always
going to be differing opinions and
especially when you have something like
you know trans women competing against
biological women and you know you have
someone like Martina Navratilova that
made her her life's work in her career
competing as a biological woman she's
gonna have some opposition to that and
then the idea that everyone's supposed
to be lumped in together with some
mandate that no one has really openly
discussed you're supposed to agree and
it fluctuates and moves like the tide
you know like what is and is and moves
like the tide it just changes it's like
this court of public opinion it's it's
constantly rendering new verdicts and
you have to keep up and catch up things
that were acceptable just a few years
ago are totally unacceptable I mean
comedy is is the key area - yeah it is
not what's happening on social media now
not sustainable for comedy because it's
fine oh really yeah it is it is how
because it creates outrage and then
comedy it relieves that that pressure
like believe me there's a lot of
blowback and believe me there's a lot of
debate and discussion but also believe
me when someone does do some politically
incorrect really good stand-up people go
fucking bonkers they love it it's going
it's like one of the best times ever
right now to do stand-up people go
fucking AAP ya know it's incredible
material but I'm just saying for you
know comics that are running into issues
with getting banned or whatnot I mean
who's one of the issues with getting
banned i mean i think you know 101 yeah
yeah Owens has some issues yeah and you
know you can make some arguments that
Owens not doing so well right now but
he's also developing his following
because of the fact there's people that
don't agree with him being banned
he's a very specific example other
people that are being banned
do you know of a other who what others
stand up community you've had a bunch of
comics on maybe they haven't been fully
banned from social media but they've had
their performances shut down who's that
one guy who was on the mesh Natasha
fatale but that was at a college see you
the same it's the same thing
yes but universities have been bad for
that for a long time they're the most
sensitive of all audiences and they're
the ones who are the most they believe
the most they're gonna change the world
and that their ideals are there their
ideals or rock-solid and they have to
push back against anything that opposes
them Ari was temporarily banned for that
was an accident
yeah yeah the Ari thing was he was
joking around and they thought he was
making legitimate death threat joking
around with a good friend of ours the
algorithms are cutting the moderators
are not right we can't just be having
this happen all the time and then they
just keep saying oh sorry yes sorry
there has to be a new approach
completely it can't just be oh let them
back on and and just keep doing what
they're doing like we need to completely
reappropriation it's not just a matter
of going to the overlords and saying can
I can I please come back right it's
that's not that's not suitable for the
communication structure of the planet
Earth well I think what's not suitable
is that commerce should not dictate how
human beings are allowed to openly
communicate with each other and one of
the things that Jack said that's kind of
contrary to his company's actions was
that he believes that the ability to
communicate is a fundamental right like
the ability to get electricity like if
you're in the KKK you can still order
electricity you know so should you be
able to just distribute information if
people say no then you have to say okay
well who's to decide what can and cannot
be distributed and then who's to decide
if they can go somewhere else and then
what happens if you tell a person they
can't go anywhere then things get really
weird we're looking at more of a
community moderation structure so that
we've even been considering like a juror
system so that if we make a bad decision
and someone appeals it then the
community can potentially make the
decisions as opposed to us or you know
but then when you go further than up for
the far enough into the decentralization
world it just becomes impossible so we
sort of have to decide I I think that's
where it's gonna go mm-hmm so I don't
know III that's that's the uncensor Abal
internet and this idea that we can do
things and then just delete them like in
the GDP are the European privacy laws
have the solidity of the right to be
forgotten online which is very difficult
because deleting things from any
database especially a blockchain is not
easy so the idea that you can go on the
internet do crazy shit and then just
have it taken away it's a paradox
because privacy means control but you
know it doesn't jive with the way that
technology works to just be able to to
delete things like you're writing to a
database that's not even how the
universe probably really works like you
can't just say oh I just went punch that
guy in the face and the bar and I just
want to delete that from having happened
right yeah yeah and again I think that
what we're dealing with now is like you
have to interface with it right
you have to interface with your computer
you have to interface with your phone to
access all this stuff my real concern is
that that's just a temporary step and
that we're going to just consistently
and constantly be interfaced with all of
each other you know Elon brought
something up when he was on the podcast
called neural link and he didn't want to
fully describe it because he said he
couldn't but he said it's gonna be live
within you know a matter of X amount of
months and he was talking about it
increasing the bandwidth between human
beings and information
in a radical way that's gonna change
society that is what I'm talking about
yeah he's talking about an injection you
basically doing like your throat and
it's a neural lace and it just you know
threads around your brain what and yeah
you serious yeah that's yeah that's what
he's talking so a million try and turn
us into robots so but the question is
what's the nature of those robots robots
are going to exist they they exist right
but should you shoot them into your
brain if you're dying of cancer would
you or it yeah I'd want to see God it
suits up so like do the nanobots you
know that Kurzweil talks about like do
we have control as a community over
those robots what's what's the code
running those saying are they infallible
I mean what if they crap I mean our
fucking TriCaster crashes every other
podcast yeah whether it's open source or
free or not makes no difference to
whether it can fuck up your brain right
what if somebody puts that shit in and
then for whatever reason they have a
blown fuse and they stomp on the gas and
drive right into a tree it depends on
the level of risk you're willing to take
I mean you see some of those videos like
I've cried out those videos where like
the the woman like here's for the first
time you're like yeah yeah yeah and
people seeing color for the first time
putting on certain glasses that allow
them see color yeah all the stuff is
amazing
I mean that all that stuff is very cool
and in talking to David Sinclair and he
was talking about emerging technologies
in with reversing aging and age-related
diseases I mean we're we're entering or
entering into an incredibly strange time
for the the influence of technology and
innovation on human beings on our bodies
and our brains oh and we're gonna have
to decide you know how how far you want
to go on this ride
next stop Far Rockaway like when you get
now I live there yeah as I've done the
beach there I'm going but you know I'm
saying it's like one of those things
like wet where do you get off like when
where do you go that okay that's enough
you know like with you you're deleting
Facebook you lead to delete Instagram
and you go just gonna be on mines and
that's enough I'll go in other places I
mean that these there are out
alternatives that are getting fair
big yes what so and and together like
what like signal has tens of millions of
users I don't know what that is you've
never heard of it that's like the
encrypted messaging app that do you know
what I don't it's open source what is it
Snowden is on their advisory board or
whatnot what is signal it's just a
messaging app so a message on but like a
whatsapp or like a Twitter
okay whatsapp so it's you have to know
the person and then contact them through
it
yeah but we're talking we're considering
using the signal protocol for our
messaging system because our messaging
system needs an upgrade but all of us
together are going to be able to create
sort of like a a group of apps that are
like sort of a more open freedom
supporting privacy alternative and like
so it's we're not gonna solve it by
ourselves and it would be way easier if
one of these big companies would just
switch gears and start doing things the
right way I mean we've spent eight years
building this if one of the big
companies Google Facebook had just been
free and open source we would have spent
the last seven years building on top of
them right because you know they already
did something cool that they're sharing
with everybody so it's it's actually
closed source projects stifle innovation
because if you think we had to reinvent
the wheel we literally we went and built
an alternative with much of the similar
functionality think about how much
further the world would be if everyone
was building on top of more common but
you're looking at in terms of your own
personal benefit you're looking in terms
of mine's personal benefit and we
created this thing it's not just pure
for altruistic reasons it's a business
right so if they had established this
open source network that was Facebook
and he just came along and built yours
well that yeah that would be great for
you but why would that be great for them
I mean they they're obviously in a
business now the problem with the
businesses this business is the business
of distributing information and then we
have to decide okay at what point in
time do we allow these air quotes
overlords to dictate what can and cannot
be distributed and how do
this happened because in the beginning I
bet it didn't happen I bet in the
beginning you could just put on whatever
the fuck you wanted and then they had to
deal with that and then they had to
figure out after a while okay maybe we
shouldn't have this on like hey if we're
gonna sell advertising we really should
maximize the amount of clicks okay how
do we do that well we put things in
people's feeds they want to see we put
things that people want to debate about
and argue about and political things all
sorts of different things that excite
them and get them to be engaged with the
platform that's that's their business
their businesses I mean it's no
different in a lot of ways than Amazon
or then any other business that wants to
grow like how do they grow well they
grow by maximizing their profits and by
maximizing the amount of eyes that get
to their advertising so they get more
clicks and more people get engaged
that's what their businesses you're
deciding by saying if they were open
source look how much further on the
world would be they would be further
along to I don't know if they would
agree with that I think they're they're
worth fuckin kajillions of dollars so
they've figured it out well it just
depends on whether or not you think that
people have a right to know what is
going on it's I mean it's like food
transparency well yeah we were yeah we
I'll talk about that I will talk about
that to the end of time mm-hmm
you were interfacing with this and it's
affecting us I agree yeah I fully agree
with what you're saying I'm playing
devil's advocate by saying that in their
position they have a business and their
business is to make money and they're
gonna lose because of what they're doing
because if their businesses up even
after losing access users are they yeah
but I thought their business went up
after the probably did it but it's not
gonna last I mean look I they say that
it's just the game's over it's gonna
take a long time for us to build it up
as you know all of these different
organizations and companies working
together but Linux for instance is the
operating system that most banks it is
the most popular operating system the
world it's open so it's in your phone
it's in everywhere mm-hmm it got there
because of that because everyone used it
and incorporate it into their product
Facebook they are all using free and
open source off
in their stacks they're just not sharing
their product with everybody else so
they're benefiting from it but not
giving back and you know I I almost feel
like I shouldn't even be saying that
they should just pivot because you know
that's their only chance to survive so
this is based on your estimations of the
future yeah it just seems like things
are becoming more open and if is that
possible because you engage with a lot
of other super nerds and you guys all
have these similar ideas you just have
to look at what's happening with Bitcoin
I don't know what's happening with
Bitcoin it's becoming a bit coin in
aetherium and you know lots of other
block chains are growing really fast
maybe the you know the price is separate
the development energy the number of
people who are building apps on top of
Bitcoin and etherium is growing
massively there's there's it's a whole
new infrastructure it's like a common
protocol that people can build on so
that is growing rapidly the price is
secondary that's not even what Bitcoin
in theory Ammar really about it's it's
it's a decentralized database so this is
just where the internet the internet is
meant to be decentralized it sort of
started out that way and then we moved
into this like web to silo system with
like just these massive companies that
are controlling everything but it's
gonna it's going to keep waving okay
again to play devil's advocate the vast
amount of users are not using those
platforms the vast amount of users are
using these controlled platforms like
Facebook and Instagram and Twitter like
if that's if you if you're talking about
I'm just guessing but if you're talking
about the the the gross number of human
beings that are interacting with each
other on social media
they're mostly uncontrolled networks
you're saying this is not gonna last but
there's no evidence that it isn't going
to last there's tons of evidence
what is the evidence Wikipedia what is
what happened in card I remember that
disk you put in your computer that was
your encyclopedia mm-hmm where is that
no one uses it okay that's that's
different this is not a social media
network
the social media networks that people
are using are almost all controlled
right yeah no it's not it's gonna take a
very very long - how long I would say
ten years and what do you think is going
to be the catalyst like what's going to
cause these people to make this radical
shift to open-source I think we have to
be we have responsibility to be
competitive functionally like you guys
does we do we're getting we're moving
there fast like we just hired a ton of
new developers and it's going to take
time we're not there yet right but once
we have functionally competitive
products that you wouldn't even know the
difference and there's enough people
there then it's basically the decision
of you know am I gonna choose the one
that respects my privacy and freedom or
the one that doesn't and people our kids
don't like Facebook right no everyone is
sick of it we're just drug addicts hmm
is that what it is they just sucked into
this thing where yeah you constantly
want to check and see who's writing what
and yeah and there's monopolies arguably
yeah yeah right especially when Facebook
owns Instagram right um oh but if they
bought Twitter as well they almost did I
think Google almost steps in and buys
everything then you're like oh no they
probably could right yeah they easily
could they could probably buy everything
Apple could with cash yeah yeah Tim Cook
could come in with a big purple pimp
suit on just slap down a briefcase pitch
I just wonder and like look all the all
these executives you know Jack seems
like a cool person he's a very nice guy
it's not I just sent so much
inconsistency and you know he's talking
about Bitcoin mmm like it's this
important new Internet money
simultaneous which is he knows the
infrastructure is open mm-hmm
but then his platforms are the opposite
why is he so inconsistent it's like
there's it's just hypocritical to the
maximum mm I think it's partly because
it's a giant
business you know and I think when you
have an obligation to your shareholders
and to maximize profits and when you're
trying to maximize profits - and there's
the this universal growth model where
every year just has to get a little bit
bigger otherwise you're fucking up as a
CEO like do you don't have to experience
that with mines you're one of the
co-founders how many people are involved
it's like 15 of us now and you have like
a board we sit around when you make
critical decisions mm-hmm such stressful
as fuck yeah luckily we've started off
from the point where we're saying okay
we're embedding principles into how
we're doing things mm-hmm so we're not
in a position where we would ever change
that that that's that for us to do that
would just be a total waste of time
right so we're making it harder for
ourselves to make money in the beginning
we're making it harder for ourselves to
grow because we are not going to
compromise people's privacy in order to
do those things and so we're just gonna
build up slowly steadily mmm fine and
just get there when we get there how
much time a day is this how much of an
obligation is this for you the same as
any job I'm it's it sucks because you
know my wife Ally would say like it's
too blurred my life because it's like
what is pleasure what does it mean
probably happens with you too like when
you're on your phone like your family
doesn't know if you're working or if
you're doing something for fun yeah it's
like your work is sort of in the digital
realm partially a lot of it yeah yeah so
it's like I just need to put it down
like no phones in bed mm-hmm these kinds
of things like strict lines yeah that is
that is huge strict lines are huge yeah
putting your phone in a physical place
and pushing it away you know like that's
it's huge it's just that the compulsion
to look and check like Instagram feeds
to see if there's any cool picture it's
like what the fuck am i doing like why
am i compelled to do this there's no
benefit like occasionally if I'm bored
in the dentist's office you have ten
minutes all right what could see what
the fuck's going on in the news like
maybe occasionally but there's so much
of your time it's dedicated to that so
much of it it's so taxing and it's so
involved and so many people are doing it
man went to a restaurant the other day
and I was looking around and fucking
everyone was sitting at a table looking
at their phone it's Weaver do the stack
game what's that just like if you're out
to dinner with a bunch of people just
everyone's put their phone in a stack in
the middle well you could do touch it
then you pay oh I'd rather just just not
not yeah
people's people wipe their butts and
don't fucking wash their hands and touch
their phone and you know your phone is
filled with all kinds of dirty shit they
like done these the swab test the phones
or covered with e.coli and peewit gross
I'm not you I'm a little germaphobe keep
my fucking hands clean Brown I'm not but
I know your phone probably has your butt
all over it just be honest sure you
don't have to but I know you're saying
like it's a good idea you know the guys
who run Joe beef in Montreal it's this
amazing restaurant Fred and Dave and
they were they were talking about it
that when they go to dinner they shut
their phone off like I'm gonna I'm a
good guest a good table guest I shut my
phone off I don't I don't engage it on
check it it's a you know it's a it's a
similar thing to podcasting in a way in
that one of the good benefits of
podcasting is that for three hours or
two hours or whatever the fuck you're
doing you're gonna sit down and you're
just getting gauge with a person just
you I me and Bill we're just talking
right and that we're not checking our
phone we're not looking at the
television we're not looking at the
laptop there's no distractions and that
is one of the rare moments in life where
you get to talk to someone for several
hours and over the last you know nine
years that I've been doing this podcast
I've it's benefited me tremendously just
just in having real conversations of
people we're just sitting across from
somebody for hours just talking to them
like getting better at understanding how
people think getting better
understanding
I think getting way better at
communicating and you know knowing when
to talk and when not to talk and what
questions to ask and try to understand
the thought process that another person
has and you know you walk out of that
with some lessons like little real legit
tangible lessons those fucking don't
happen we should turn at your phone
while you're talking to people it like
cuts all that off that the conversation
stays shallow you miss important points
like oh I'm sorry what we're saying you
do that kind of shit and like then the
other person knows you're not engaged
it's just it's weird yeah it's all
shades of gray I mean it's done
incredible things for like democratizing
the ability to share information so it's
not just these yeah juggernaut media
companies are the only places that can
share information so it's incredible
it's crucial we need everyone to have
the ability to share and so that you can
check and because you maybe you're more
likely to get the reality of what's
going on the world from your newsfeed
then then the big companies but we need
management skills personal management
skills yeah and we I think we need to
look at them the same way we look at
like alcohol consumption and you know
even poor food choices like you could
have a cheat day and eat a bunch of
pizza and some ice cream like the rock
does no one's gonna get hurt right but
most the time you probably take care of
your meat vehicle I think the same thing
can be said of your mind like you can
have a date like I have a day a week
well I will fucking plop down on the
couch and I don't give a fuck I just
watch bullshit on TV and just relax
because I know that I'm redlining it six
days a week you know and I'm doing three
different things at a time I have three
different jobs I'm working out I'm
trying to take care of my family I'm
writing comedy material and then let me
see some documentary round some wacky
fucking cult or andwe're whatever the
hell I'm gonna watch and I don't feel
guilty when I do that because I know
that I've kind of air quotes earned it
you know I think that that's that's
mental management and I think we
certainly need we need personal
management it comes to the use of
electronic devices yeah personal
challenges yeah challenge psychology is
really
fucking interesting to me like you guys
do the October thing mm-hmm
we're thinking about doing it twice a
year now I did this one with with some
of my friends Enoch shit you are you
ready - no we a doesn't get in we did
one called the hundred Burpee challenge
that haven't done burpees in I did him
today because I was coming I was like oh
I can do burpees - nice but a hundred
for time every day for a hundred days
straight and it's you are drenched after
going for time a hundred burpees oh yeah
ridiculous it's hard when that was the
best most disciplined I've ever been
working out it was like me and five
friends my friend's mom did it - and it
was changed my life real it was
ridiculous how to change life I felt
better than I have ever felt by far and
I have it that was like a year ago and
I've trailed off but I think like but
not just physical challenges like
digital ones - and like with the ice
bucket thing that was crazy shit I
didn't get in the pot either I'm
watching it happen yeah it was just
really powerful I'm like I'm gonna throw
water on my head during a fucking
drought stop yeah everybody stop mmm
this is not fixing anything I want to
just write a check yeah I'll give you
some money yeah film yourself writing
the check yeah stop yeah throw glass
water my face when I'm done with the
cheque just stop but getting communities
to sort of pressure each other into
doing things in a positive way in a
positive way yeah yeah well that was
what the sober October thing kind of
turned out to be about and there's a lot
of lessons and learning that - you know
you learn lessons about your reliance on
either substances or things and one of
the things that I learned from the sober
October challenge the last one was that
when you engage in really rigorous
physical activities six and seven days a
week you don't give a fuck like you
don't give a fuck like all that the
chatter the internal chatter just goes
away
all the negative chatter like it's like
taking a pill like god I don't
fuck pill it's amazing it's really I
mean like em is is a physical energy
that's not being expressed because I
think the body has certain demands and
certain potential and in order to have
this certain potential like your
potential for athletic output you have
to have this you have this energy source
right and this this body energy source
when not expressed and when you're
sitting in a cubicle all day day after
day after day it builds this like
internal anxious feeling intention and
that becomes your normal the the normal
line the normal frequency in which you
operate you operate under this intense
sort of anxious state and you feel like
well this is life goddam and I'm
depressed or goddammit I'm anxious yeah
I got anxiety I got to see a shrink ergo
this if you just blow that shit out
every day every day you know you burn
off 2,000 calories and you fucking run
for five miles and you do kettlebells
and chin-ups and fucking hit the bag for
five rounds do that shit goes away you
don't give a fuck and then you get to
look at things with real clarity so
there was a lesson learned in that and
then that lesson was only learned
because we decided to challenge each
other and push ourselves do you think it
would be too draconian to have like a
company hundred burpee a day yes yeah
you know why man I just don't think you
should tell people what to do
they their job as the job and then
everything else is like a cult you know
it's like no we're only gonna wear white
robes we don't need anything about white
robes oh okay when do you start fucking
everybody and taking their money yeah
that always comes next yeah cuz it's in
vain yeah you can't you can't force
people it's like being convinced but it
wouldn't be a bad well the problem is if
you were you could you can have some
sort of a company-wide challenge we're
known as like if you no no because
that's what I'm saying is like you would
shame them into doing it or you would
you know somehow or another make it seem
like they would advance in the company
more if they played along it could be
yeah I'm not gonna do it
I mean because it feels so good yes yes
well you should encourage it but I
almost feel like yeah but you don't want
to shame people like there's some
brilliant people that don't work out at
all they're brilliant but they just
whatever for whatever reason that's
their choice you know it should be your
choice to go out like Christopher
Hitchens just fucking drink every day
and smoke cigarettes and one day you get
cancer and you're like well you know I
mean this is like he being heat the way
he described it like burning the candle
at both ends it gave a beautiful
brilliant light yeah he wouldn't have
had those ideas if he had done it
another way it's very possible that's
true and all most of the madness that we
see in in brilliant artists like it's
very possible that that man this would
not be expressed if they had their shit
together there was something that sam
harris was saying the other day on your
show just about about the free well
stuff and i think that it that connects
to this information theory kind of thing
so if we're just sort of a conglomerate
of these actions and we're like
following the actions through our body
and unique ways I mean do you accept his
theory unfree well well it's not his
theory or it's a conventional theory of
determinism that a lot of people are
embracing and I think there's definitely
some merit to it however you and I both
know that you choose whether or not you
decide to do something right you choose
whether or not you did like someone says
someone says something to you that's
kind of shitty and you choose whether
you decide to email them back something
shitty like you have that initial
impulse like well hey man fuck you you
have that initial impulse you think on
it you sleep on it but why are you
thinking on it and sleeping on it are
you doing that because of determinism
are you doing that because you're trying
to be a better person and are you trying
to be a better person because of all the
factors that played out in your life
like environment genes life experience
all those things right it mean it's a
really good it's a really just good
discussion so do you own the words that
you're saying right now it's a good
question Larry Lessig who's on here the
other day yeah you guys didn't even talk
about this but he basically is
the founders of Creative Commons in this
whole licensing structure for content
like what we're saying right now you
know this is gonna be licensed I don't
know how you and I xym swarm right here
this discussion it's gonna be licensed
and you yeah okay I mean you're I think
you're licensing it in a certain way
okay so you have the ability to license
it however you want right you could say
hey anyone can take this and cut it up
and remix it or you could say now it's
locked down but he helped create this
whole licensing array of like six
different licenses one says you can do
absolutely anything you want with this
another says you can share it but you
can't make money off it there's a
handful and so the free will stuff is
connected to how we're dealing with
information and like if you cuz if you
if you think realistically we don't own
what we're saying we're a part of it
right we're a conduit we're a unique
conduit so I don't think it aligns with
how the universe works
to really be locking down information I
think that it makes sense probably in
certain short-term business but you know
I think we have to open it up to what's
really going on what do you mean by like
locking down information like like
source code mm like classified files
like our content like music like video
and now how does this do how does this
connect to determinism and whether or
not you have free will because it's a
are are you the creator of your
information hmm what you are certainly
if you put in the work let's say you
decide to write a book I mean you put
hundreds and hundreds of hours into this
book and edit this book and then you
release the book and someone says no you
didn't you didn't create that you're
you're a product of determination and
I'm gonna just steal your book that's an
electoral theft intellectual theft is
real it's it's certainly real in terms
of a creation of content right if you
are a stand-up comedian and someone
takes your countless hours of work
steals it that's intellectual that for
sure and then they try to pawn it off as
their own through their own selfish
needs their selfish means
that's why attribution is the key part
of the creative commons-licensed watcher
always saying if you come up with a joke
you know it came from here but what if
it's a profit like say if you wrote a
book and I say hey this is a great book
written by Bill up and give me five
bucks for it I'm putting up on my side
you to it fuck that I mean here's the
thing I I know if somebody makes all the
money off of your book because they have
a better platform to sell your book and
they don't give it to you at all and you
wrote the book you spent all the time
you did all the work
I would for certain content that I
create completely give it away that
sounds worse guys never written a book
I've earned a book did you
I mean I've written a lot of content
yeah but have you written I give away I
give i've not published but okay yeah
the book that you sell like if you were
an author let's say if you were I'm not
saying people should be forced to do
this I'm just saying that this I think
is how creativity happens and III just
don't people deserve to make money on
their content right and you deserve to
own your stuff but I don't think that
that's actually how the universe works
and I don't think it's acceptable to say
oh free you know free will doesn't exist
I own your content but yeah that's why
I'm struggling to see how they're
connected because if you're not the
originator then you're not the owner
that's a weird argument yes you are the
originator Stephen King wrote all
Stephen you are you're the unique
conduit you are the originator of that
specific configuration of information
right and you deserve to be able to do
everything you're saying with it I'm
just saying that it's it's complex well
it is complex if you're saying that all
human beings essentially all of your
actions have been determined by a lot of
factors that are outside of your control
whether it's genetics again life
experience education all the different
factors your environment is that what's
causing you to put out a fucking
brilliant record it's part of it right
but you I maybe you have 50 maybe you
have 50% everything else has 50% or
there's weed I don't know what the
percentage is but if you're a musician
and someone like Spotify comes along and
says boot D do you make that dude so
we're just gonna put it on Spotify and
make millions and give you pennies
that's not what I'm advocating I'm
saying you said anyone uses the Blues
well more than that more than that
there's yeah yeah there's real
plagiarism so but that doesn't that
doesn't mean that those aren't great
records that's true
it is true yeah I mean it's a Led
Zeppelin this legit grey area you know I
found out this bill burr called me up
and left this really disturbed message
he was like really bummed out when he
watched and bill's a musician he's a
drummer and when he saw videos of Led
Zeppelin music played and the band that
used to open for Led Zeppelin we played
it on the podcast we were like holy shit
like they just stole stuff they just
stole giant chunks and riffs and you
know and and I mean they made it better
I guess but yeah but that's a different
thing than Stephen King's but why
because Stephen King had to spend
countless hours in front of his laptop
trying to go over each and every
sentence and each and every paragraph
and suck you in when all this work no
they stole stuff dude
they sold certain phrases but you think
he didn't use a single phrase anywhere
in any of his books that he didn't pull
from somebody certainly have yeah he
certainly has I don't think it's the
same though I think it's similar Led
Zeppelin what they also had to spend
countless hours recording that
performance to get it to the level of
Awesomeness ya heard mm-hmm sure that
wasn't easy to do they just did a bitch
ass moving
those people yeah if you no matter what
you should be attributing if you're
taking ideas put in the footnotes why
does it hurt it doesn't make your art
worse because then they'd have to admit
they stole the riff for stairway to
heaven from their opening band and then
people would go Wyatt and then they
would see it then they would look at Led
Zeppelin differently but you know human
beings are fucking severely flawed I
don't know if I buy that with this this
idea that you're saying in terms of like
authors creating content I'm not trying
to sell something no I know
but if they are I don't think someone
should be able to copy their stuff and
sell it I don't think they should either
but I think using you should be able to
do you think okay you should be able to
decide so view the content creator you
should okay I agree with that yeah yeah
it's it is I mean obviously I play
devil's advocate a lot but that's how
you get to the bottom of these
conversations but it is a very
complicated issue the complicated issue
of who you are and why you are who you
are and who you are at this moment
versus who you are a decade ago or two
decades ago it's it's all very weird you
know I mean you go back and think about
stuff from high school and you're like
Jesus what am I really even that person
like I think about like I've talked to
my sister about stuff that happened when
we were in high school hey you remember
that guy and he said to say hi and like
was that even me don't even know that
person like is that really me because I
got if I if I see them again I'll be
like oh yeah oh yeah we had 10th grade
science together oh yeah huh crazy like
I ran into a guy from my high school
like a couple of weeks ago it was weird
it was so weird you know he remembered
some strange story from English class
and I was like wow you remember that
like how weird
and while he was talking I'm like is
that even really me like is even really
talking about me because I don't have
any connection to the stuff that he's
saying and I understand that he has it's
a vague distant ghost-like memory in his
mind of some some slide images that he's
pieced together that he recognizes as a
past interaction
I mean it's fucking strange it's super
strange to like in you know 50 or 20 45
whatever
you know if your body can be replaced
one piece at a time
yeah as time goes on then your body
literally you could survive but your
body is gonna be like almost completely
diffic like that the boat analogy was it
was a Graham Hancock that used that
analogy somebody used this analogy of
certain boats that are like really
ancient boats that are on display and
every single piece of them from the
original boat has been replaced because
they rotted away and you're like okay
what am I looking at what is this really
yeah and that's kind of us in and once
that becomes a physical thing you know I
met the guy who got his arm and his leg
bitten off by shark you ever see that
guy's got carbon-fiber arms and legs
john joseph brought him to the comedy
store I met him at the UFC when you gave
him tickets oh shake his hand super
super nice guy but he's got this let's
like a carbon-fiber hand and forearm
that moves around like like a hand he
shakes your hand and then he walks with
no limp he's got this carbon fiber I
mean I think from the knee down the
shark bit his leg off it's fascinating
you know you're like okay they're still
a person you're still here and what what
there is there's a gentleman right there
Paul de Gelder Paul de Gelder super nice
guy
but his uh that is a fake arm that he's
got from his arm being chopped off by a
fucking shark
so from see where it is from his right
thigh like mid thigh down and his right
elbow down all that shit chewed off by a
shark and he's still jacked look at him
no excuses and that's gonna keep
becoming more biologic right well what
the real concern is members
six-million-dollar man
remember that television show no you're
younger than me there was a show called
the Six Million Dollar Man and the Six
Million Dollar Man he had been in some
sort of a pilot accident and the
gentlemen we can rebuild him
we can make him better than he was
better stronger faster and they given
these Bionic parts they gave him a
bionic arm and they gave him Bionic legs
and he
run like 60 miles an hour you'd run like
crazy fast and these artificial arms and
artificial leg then they had a Bionic
Woman same shit except she was hot and
she had artificial legs and I think she
could see things and other people
couldn't see like one day I mean that
was cool would you'd look at that like
wow look we could do like he got in a
fight with Bigfoot on the TV show it's
really stupid but one day people are
going to be given the option do you want
to come now maybe you want to keep your
legs or do you want to get these legs
that allow you to jump over a building
I'm curious if there's really like
superhuman projects that are going on
where where people actually can have
these abilities they you know we know
that with classified information it's
just we know what that their stuff we
don't know there are extraordinary
projects mm-hmm so you know this being
in the future I feel like there's a
disconnect between the state of
technology on the planet earth right now
with like what the public has access to
with what the you know black projects
have access to and that is really not
cool because it's not fair for Humanity
to not understand what is going on I
think that's true but I also think that
most of the state-of-the-art stuff is
it's peer-reviewed right I mean there's
so many different people working on
these different technologies like CERN
you know they're working on the Large
Hadron Collider or anything else there's
so many different people working on it
the the people that are the forefront of
the technology list they're all gobbled
up by the dark government they're you
know they're they're cut the people at
the head of the line kind of understand
where the technology is that currently
for sure for you and I we don't know
what the fuck's going on
but I think you're right I think there's
probably some government programs where
they scoop up the the wisest and the
brightest and you know they got
Oppenheimer you know and got him to
develop the Manhattan Project there's
probably some shit going on right now
what do you think's happening
what do you know bill tell me I want
there to be huge Freedom of Information
Act reform i that they're there we know
there are trillions going into the black
budget hmm so a Trevor Paglen wrote a
cool book called I think it was him
called blank spots on the map and it
just talks a lot about the black budget
and I mean we so we know it exists we
know I don't know but it's it's holding
us back but maybe I'm not saying
everything should be shared because what
if you have like a bio weapon right
Rhino so we need to understand I think
that we need to push the threshold with
what the public has access to like we
need to go way deeper it's complicated
yeah it really is right you know it
really is um I really appreciate your
perspective and I really appreciate your
point of view and I really appreciate
your ethics and what you're what you're
working towards with Minds and that's
one of the reasons what I wanted to talk
to you I think it is important and as
much as I fuck around and play devil's
advocate I do that to try to get to you
know how you're thinking and why and
whether or not you've had these
arguments in your own mind but I think
ultimately I've said this before and
don't know if it makes sense again I'm
not that smart I really wonder if
there's there's a bottlenecks for
progress that are going to be that we're
going to run into and I think ultimately
information is one of the big ones and
information also in a lot of ways is
money you know I mean when we think of
money we're thinking of ones and zeros
that are being moved around on bank
accounts it's data
I mean it's attributed to different
people and you get to do more things
because you have more of these numbers
and more of these things but what is it
really it's not gold based anymore it's
not a physical mature material object
that you're coveting now it's some weird
thing and it's kind of like information
on a database and what if we get to a
certain point in time and I sort of feel
like in this weird vague
tract way we're moving towards this with
all it's one of the things that I want
to really step back and wonder about
this trend toward socialism and and
social democratic thinking I wonder what
that is and I honestly think that we're
moving towards this idea that hey you
know we've got a lot of fuckin problems
that could be cured if you moved some of
that money around and but but should you
be able to move some of that money
around and when what happens if that
money becomes something different than
what if people start developing social
currency instead of financial currency
would have your ability to do things was
based on how much you actually put in I
mean we're assuming right we assume that
the way we do things now where if you
want to buy a car you have to have
thirty five thousand dollars that's how
much a Mustang cost and you gotta bring
it to the bank and that's not and you
prove alone
but what if we get to a time in the
future where it's not these pieces of
paper that give you material objects but
rather your own actions and deeds
provide you a social currency that
allows you to go on vacations or allows
you to eat at restaurants it allows you
to do things and there's this running
tally that's not outside of the realm of
possibility no I think it rewards
systems within everything that we're
using are gonna are gonna rise up I mean
that that's that's what we're already
kind of doing I mean we reward tokens
for yeah for activity we're gonna see
that rise up in more things that we're
doing but what I'm saying is if we're
doing it in if it's a social currency
and that your own personal behavior
allows you to access more freedoms or or
more goods or more things it would
encourage positive behavior and
community based behavior because that
would be the only way to advance I mean
obviously there's a long time down the
line but when the first caveman you know
traded the first fucking shiny rock for
the first spearhead you know whatever it
was that they did that started this
whole inevitable trend towards money
this is not something that has to be
this way forever you know and I wonder
when we're looking at the distribution
of information which is arguably
arguably it's never never been like what
we have today there's never been a time
in human history where everyone had so
much access to information that used to
have to pay for he used to have to go to
schools you have to used to have to earn
your way to the position where you could
open the very books that had all this
information in at night just get it off
your phone it's instant and I this is a
whole different way of interfacing with
information I think this is gonna affect
higher learning Institute's I think it's
going to affect a lot of different
things but I wonder if this all can be
applied ultimately someday maybe not in
our generation but someday to money that
people start using social currency and
that social currency is going to be
almost like we have some sort of a
database of social currency in this
country a distributed database yeah as
long as the government can be running on
open systems I think the the reason we
struggle with you know trusting the
government to distribute wealth is
because it's it's so inefficient we want
to be decided where it goes well they're
also corrupt as fuck I mean there's no
no doubt about that I mean at the end of
the day that's a giant problem period if
the people that are deciding what we can
and can't do with information are also
corrupt which I mean there's laws that
allow them to be corrupt but doesn't
mean that they're not corrupt right I
feel like every politician the only
politicians that I would support at this
point I want to be pulling us in a
direction like that is making their own
position irrelevant basically building
open secure voting systems that allow
the planet or the country to decide and
vote on what we're doing I mean I you
know I just think that we need more
accurate representation of the
consciousness of the communities and it
shouldn't just be these singular people
deciding for everybody when we should
have we have the tech right and by the
time they get in there they're so
compromised by the special interest
groups that are helping them out and all
the different people that are
contributing to the campaign fund do you
see anybody like that on the horizon
I think that there are not specifically
right now I don't I don't see anyone
talking about open systems and secure
voting and completely changing the way
that we're making decisions but I think
that's probably just because they don't
know about it I think there would be a
lot of politicians who would be ok with
that
or want us to move in that direction but
I think we need more technologists
scientists in these positions building
the things that we're using yeah and
with an ethic of freedom yeah yeah all
right dude great conversation man I
really appreciate it
tell people how they can get on mines
how they can check it out and you
haven't do you guys have an app as well
as uh we have an app you go to mind
Sackheim slash mobile to get the app
we're not in Google Play we are still in
the Apple Store Google Play won't let
you in no how come at the nipple but
find me - calm slash out man hopefully
we'll get you on there yeah well I'm on
I just yeah I haven't posted anything
all right but you sent me Megan yes I
thank you appreciate it - thanks buddy
thank you hell yeah sir come on man it
was really fun I think we got a lot out
of it thanks
[Music]
great
[Applause]
[Music]